And I had mine on my pocket .
And anyway roll this little clip I will just show you .
You have to say Sam ate , not Sam ate pizza .
What 's the point of that ?
It could be family pizza , it could be very individual pizza .
And they expected that it would be young families or young men just like it had always been .
And you know Americans do n't read about this guy .
We decided that we needed to put our money where our mouth is .
We only send a few small bits of data when we control tolls .
So they want to emerge as an industrial powerhouse across the industries away from oil .
If we called valedictorian a white knight paladin level 20 I think people would probably work a lot harder .
We 'll see .
And Herman Miller has this philosophy of having a place a people place .
PM If you can pass it down when you are done Yeah I think I lost a little orientation I looked up into this light .
And on the left side you will see the processed video where the camera has made him invisible .
Does Amazon carry it .
He 's got a very avant-garde kitchen .
We were born in a box of time and space .
But there 's more to know about your parenting star than just how much light you get at all .
One of them is the development of a new artificial reef ecology in the port , which would then protect new settlement patterns in inland and Gowanus .
We are using a biological amplifier to amplify these nerve signals muscles .
You are expected to write informative poignant and characteristic stories and leave the experimental and avant garde to your Western colleagues .
So you can keep the darkness and create the light .
So again one of the big solutions is have the World Trade Organization shifting the subsidies to sustainable practices .
All the boys and girls caught flirting would get married immediately .
The firing squad aimed fired the general was dead .
It was all I could do to hold onto this amazing creature .
It is a conversation about potential .
That 's about eight percent of total global agricultural production .
In my mind I was actually a knight trying to help science move along .
So this is what happened when PNAS published this .
I was in the doctor 's office last CAT scan and there was Reader is Digest October 2002 .
Will you believe that 12 pages on a single site , which the patient must read before we begin our study , is intended to cure epilepsy .
Now what you 're going to put between these instruments and these hands is a big , quite complicated robot .
The next day I rejoiced in trembling .
What is also interesting if you look at products that have a high component of what you might call messaging value a high component of intangible value versus their intrinsic value They are often quite egalitarian .
You know it is going to be variable .
And that is what I think the world needs now Thank you .
So it really makes you realize the burden on your parents to look at it and regulate it , to supervise it in their own lives , and how amazing it is .
I think it 's gon na make my surgeries better and less complicated .
I think these resources are incredibly valuable .
And they all fit together .
And the unseen you have to admit doesn not come to us through the senses .
Short ones do n't turn on the machine .
In other words , when we saw this picture on September 10 , we knew that the machine was working , which is a great triumph .
My students in my lab and I buy Barbie from Goodwill and Value Village , dress her in clothes made by seamstresses , and send her with a book to the canopy .
And it is a game you play with other people .
The borders between Bosnian territory and Bosnian Serb territory have been calmed down .
We 're jumping into Big Placebo 's arms .
It 's best if a lot of people succeed , because then you can use a combination of these things .
And then the city of Amsterdam gave us a plaza and asked us to do something .
And every time they turn around , there 's some damage that 's getting worse .
I blew it up to its real size and started using it along with all the other references I had , comparing it with it , as a reference to its size , to determine exactly how big a beak should be , how long , etc .
And in Italian , the ghironda is fine .
So the team developed new debugging software where we could test each synthetic fragment to see if it would grow in a background of wild type DNA .
Some people are watching this event because of NASCAR 's fascination with striking and reeling things , burning the parachute falling last weekend .
Thirteen trillion dollars in wealth has evaporated over the course of the last two years .
They pour huge amounts of pollutants into the ocean .
Because the truth is that any work that you do that involves interaction with other people is moral work .
And so this has led to a shallow path in politics but also in a whole range of human endeavors .
Can you imagine the potential offspring applications environmental detection of pollutants in soils customs applications detection of illicit goods in containers and so on .
We 're seeing stories that Bill Clinton is currently involved in .
And this switch is stuck in their heads when they go through those 18 feet of this freak store to the right .
There are now online people who are friends they 've never met .
This is our motivation .
Blowing that powder in the nose is more like firing a baroque gun from a barrel and landing at sea electricity .
Einstein predicted that as we become more modern and technologically advanced , we need more than less virtues that our traditions carry in time .
Japan was the first non-western society to adopt it .
There are many things I can say that we can increase revenue or medical innovation will make spending even higher .
It actually exaggerates their separateness of representation in multi dimensional neuronal representational terms .
Interestingly in the last 10 years Norman Foster used a similar heat thermal transfer model to generate the roof of the National Gallery with the structural engineer Chris Williams .
I know that because people come up to me like they 're friends and say , Chris , you have a weird career .
I feel invisible to you .
They did not tell us that some carbohydrates are better than others and that plants and whole grain products should replace unhealthy food .
And this made me think that perhaps the donor agencies had just missed out on a key aspect of marketing understanding who is the audience .
In fact , we 're just a straight , walking , super-intelligent monkey with a big brain .
This is a short video of how we did this project .
They are hard to just get automatically .
So I thought that what may be useful is to remind us of some of the things that have gone on here and then maybe offer some ideas which we can take away and take forward and work on .
Good .
These vibrios these bacteria can actually infect people .
Smile Smile Open the mouths .
We shave it off and I have a little gravitational lens OK .
So heavens What was I to do I no longer required the sticks I wasn not allowed to have these sticks .
Now , to clearly see prejudice , you need to understand what introversion is .
They are shaping our very desires .
You ca n't really see it on this map , but it 's a map that becomes the main topic in the second half of my book .
In the developing world she said they had two billion people .
I love this idea that comes from the third level of the village keys to unlock this warehouse .
You have also got flies the size of flies that are being made by Robert Wood at Harvard .
It is the last thing she did the last physical act .
When people take pictures of these buildings out of that context they look really weird and my premise is that they make a lot more sense when they are photographed or seen in that space .
I am going to if I can have my first slide up here and you will see the title of my talk and my two affiliations .
On the other hand there is a further possibility that many Americans swept up in the fever of a war will say and feel and think that Islam is the enemy somehow that Islam ought to be construed as the enemy .
OK just stand stage forward .
At this point I would also like to stress that with the utmost respect for the people I 'm about to show you a few cases of virtual autopsies , so with great respect for the people who died under the brutal circumstances in which I show you these photos .
Get out of it get it out .
nothe world is an objective , logical , universal factual science .
If I look at my own life , I was born in 1962 in Austria .
I want to conclude .
Then they spend some time planning , organizing sketches and plotting spaghetti .
So let me go on the next short video .
I bet you did n't know you needed about 5 liters of water to make a pint of beer .
We had a very low budget .
Because it 's for the comfort of a child , not for the comfort of a teacher .
DJ It was amazing because you can see that this lion is doing exactly what his name He is focused on this hyena and he is going to get it .
I told you this is n't just any business .
But we are crazy We do these things .
And with just a little bit of planning we could transform a space dominated by traffic into one that provides open space for people reconnects people with food and transforms waste into closed loop opportunities .
Jamie Oliver Let to talk to .
Now this is the Big Bang equivalent then of human development within the safe operating space of the planetary boundaries .
Take a look at the math achievements of 15-year-olds .
If something isn not perfect if it doesn not line up with that premeditated model dumpster .
Instead , she said no , no , work and rest can be together .
By the way you did hear me correctly his last name is Hacker .
There 's a lot more to do to test these theories and stuff .
First of all , I 'm a maniac .
We are interacting with our entertainment .
I think our enemy was physics and she is a cruel mistress .
It 's a rocket-powered car built at home . It 's Henry JI from 1953 , I 'm a authenticity maniac in a quiet neighborhood in Toledo .
Anyhow nobody would have followed them except for a handful of men and women of conviction and courage .
People find that strange but I think it was a great blessing for us .
And I would like to share one short vignette .
If it is elliptical you can make an astigmatic lens .
Chris Anderson Question for you Kwaben .
Science is believed to help us get what we value , but it can never tell us what we should value .
Well , we all know dozens of ticking time bombs in the contemporary world of time bombs , which have igniters for decades of all of them no longer than 50 years , and each one of them can make us in time bombs with water . soil species invasive climate change photosynthetic ceilings problems with the populations of toxins etc . mentioning about 12 of them and although none of these time bombs have a fuse longer than 50 years , and most of them have fuseheads of dozens of years , some of them in some places have much shorter fuses At the rate at which we are driving now , the Philippines will lose the entire forest available for logging in five years , and Solomon Islands is only one year away from losing the forests that can be cut out , which is their main export .
That 's why we offer teachers bonuses if the children they teach get positive ratings from those big tests that are used to assess the quality of school systems .
And I actually found a whole bunch of General Tso is relatives who are still in the little town .
Now the Axis have succeeded .
I think the whole world has essentially been brought up not to be a girl .
And then that is her over there .
It 's a revolution because it 's a change of balance .
Teaching religion is the one in which we made a mistake , focusing solely on faith in complex doctrines .
This particular one that was given to me finds golf balls especially if you are at a golf course and you check under enough bushes .
So they do all these amazing things that help us and are vital for keeping us alive and they never get any press for that .
You know it 's just funny .
I can switch to different data views That is what is neat about this app here .
Surely there have been no disputes in this room in the last four days .
Now this technology includes three large elements .
While we are doing bailouts this is what happened .
One is the question of education .
And it is the G20 that is an institution based on treaties .
I made him an offer .
That is how it works .
And that was very dangerous when it came to Dick Feynman .
After the procedure about every week we start the child on a set of simple visual tests to see how his visual skills become on the line .
And of course these transcend age race culture gender .
When it came to our atmosphere however it wasn not that much of a joke over the long term because it turned out that we were losing oxygen quite a lot of oxygen .
This is age and the cost of health care .
Here is Gates doing a thing for Windows .
And in the long run .
And we have reached that time , and we can not afford to ignore this problem , and if we are facing irreversible and catastrophic consequences , we must act and act decisively .
What you 're getting is a world where old people and old cities are circling around , doing things the way they were in the north .
So he got Joshua Bell to take his million-dollar violin to the D.C. subway station and stand in the corner and see how much money he 's gon na make .
To really understand it you have got to say Oh I get it .
You 're already starting to see balloons and word signatures , and it 's really just a jump jump and jump from here to here .
That was funny .
From this point of view , we turned it into a beautiful project .
This is one of the first places I found , and it 's in Austin , Texas , where I come from .
You think the detail is there but it isn not there .
It 's a simple thing .
IM Yeah it is exactly .
And there were 20 of them , for which I was responsible , working on a farm and trying to keep up with college .
We develop more emotional maturity if we play more .
So it is a full cycle reversible , very efficient cycle and quite simple thing to do .
Unwritten books foretold the future and predicted the past .
It would be great to wave to someone and make all our reiterates wave at the same time .
But even on the hard policy area we have innovations .
If you do n't mind me asking , do you pay for school in your country ?
My skills and my potential .
I think I 'm the only Scotsman on the Edinburgh TED .
They discovered a new bond , a new material for transparent solar cells .
It is just part of your neighborly duty .
I have some errands to attend to , so I 'll be back around 5:00 if you do n't mind .
Of course I realized that what made him stand high , yes , it was legs , thank you very much , but at first it was dignity .
They think about how to get the weight over their feet because it is sort of natural they carry you all day long .
That was unusual .
So I started looking at the best pictures I could find .
I mean it is kind of a trite thing to say but it is real that they wanted to have a central place where the cafeteria would be where the people would come and where the people working would interact .
So we can change the metaphor , let 's call the Trojan horse a ship that we get through the gate , overcome the limitations of the project .
We must not know where this is going .
And then I thought about a glass of clean water .
We do n't talk about it as men .
But the real one would cost as much as my house and house next to it , or actually every house in a block on both sides of the street can throw a school , and some people know the church .
He tells us about their past , but the signal detection tells us that we can have a long future .
During orgasm it reaches the peak of dopamine .
And that is very important the user interface .
The stars in those galaxies probably don not have planets around them .
So I think after several generations and here is the idea we really have a tinderbox .
Can I see how many of you have children in this room today ?
So I started a company called Solar Devices .
And we are constantly making an informed decision to achieve this balance .
The last story I really want to tell is this , because it 's probably the most important thing to me in what I do .
So now they 're in this together .
And now he is gone and so am I Thank you very much .
There will be huge professional arguments as well .
The only explanation I can have about what you 've heard in the last four days is the fact that it actually comes from a form of love .
So through quantum theory , the fields manifest themselves as points and interact in this way .
And it was a perfect drug , and you could sell it for buying the cocaine that was in it for a dollar , sell it for five dollars .
Do you feel their anger , their fear , their rage because of what happened in their country ?
Stunts are another area where technological and engineering progress has made life easier and safer .
It 's the universe where these machines do all these things now , including changing biology .
Can you stand up .
Try the yogurt It is very good Little expensive .
The thing on the right is a snake form a ziggurat .
Imagine they had condoms handed out to different people .
They take these little children and they carry them through these things until they teach them how to speak , sir , and things like throwing grenade , caring and maintenance weapons .
It 's the same plot .
Now the challenge for all of us is how to create environments that allow these ideas to have such a long half-life .
WK in Malawi Kasungu in Kasungu Yeah Mala .
And we are all talking about this great English icon and saying She is a fantastic woman she does everything .
In Indian sports , we do n't make things happen , accidents , and sometimes we 're in the right place at the right time .
That one can measure roughness by a number a number 23 12 and sometimes much more .
And the oceans are so productive that there 's so much going on in them that matters to people that we really need , even from a selfish perspective , to try to achieve better results than in the past .
What we learn from it .
I encourage you all to read Steve 's book or watch a movie to understand not only the beautiful bond that formed between these two men , but also how music helped shape this bond and ultimately was instrumental if you forgive the pun that helped Nathaniel walk out the streets .
It is more a reality than the ones our selves have created .
It just sank under the surface , and we were n't allowed to talk about it .
Now Elinor Ostrom a political scientist in 1990 asked the interesting question that any good scientist should ask which is is it really true that humans will always despoil commons .
I have heard it said that drowning is the most peaceful death that you can have .
Now remember she is supposed to be going to the blue flowers .
That is better than a glowing chicken .
These black lines mark shipping lanes in and out of the Bay of Fundy .
But these machines that power the inside of the cells are really amazing and really are the basis of all life , because all these machines work together .
he has no legs .
How do you study a mountain for the kinds of things we are talking about .
My sister and I used to sing together in choirs all the time .
If they are slightly skewed we will see a different image .
There are instructions step by step on this subject .
Consider this If you look at the instrument a French horn notice that the vibrations of the airstreams are affected by the shape of the instrument .
So they followed their private currency , and then players could then bid on the cool items they wanted , all organized by the players themselves .
But in contrast to my evil twin who lusts after world domination my motives are not sinister .
Wait till you see maybe next year what kind of windows we have invented .
Jean Baptiste Michel So how did we get to this conclusion .
There is an aversion to word problems which describes 99 percent of my students .
She ca n't walk at all at first , but she 'll get better with time .
Now I think we found the answer to me and some of my colleagues .
You do n't need them all .
You have got to think and I am going to ask you some questions .
So what is going on today is that there is a model of natural form which is calculus based and which is using digital tools and that has a lot of implications to the way we think about beauty and form and it has a lot of implications in the way we think about nature .
But now that the Cold War is over there is nearly universal consensus in the Muslim world and pretty close to the same here in the United States if you talk to people and ask them that in principle there is no reason that democracy and Islam can not co exist .
It matters because this is a democracy .
You know normally you work in isolation and you show at a gallery but here the work was coming alive and it had some other artists working with me .
And then God says , `` Pick it up . ''
But I always felt like you knew that I made the best choice , given who I received the information I had at hand .
And I 'm telling you , he 's not even close .
I was nominated for a Grammy and I have won some awards and stuff like that so that is awesome but the best part was meeting my husband and I have actually known Donnell for probably 12 years now and I am going to get into a little bit of I guess how music brought us together but I am going to introduce you right now to my new husband as of October 5 Donnell Leahy .
So this is the engine .
Grab any fast , fast stuff .
For example , we can enrich the digital content by physical mass .
What happens to American presidents at 04:00 on the day of the inauguration .
See the problem is that as humans these three can separate .
But it was n't really the drugs that were important , it was the idea that what they were doing helped shock people from their normal thinking and make them forget about the adult behavior that prevented them from realizing ideas .
He can stop the surgery at any moment .
But beyond the profound federal perks married people make more money .
I thought okay I will go out .
You can not rightly it is not their responsibility it is my responsibility I have to take care of my own problems .
So supermarkets .
But we can push this idea further .
Four million people were taken out of captivity and then abandoned .
We believe that the stakes are high but that the returns will be even greater .
It is pressure sensitive you can notice .
I can tell you for a fact that the next one that they are planning is called The Extremely Large Telescope .
And so the first thought that came to mind is everywhere we park we have electric power .
So I thought it was kind of the end of the story .
Ninety five percent of our professors report that they are above average teachers .
That 's why I put one more element in each of them .
But here is the problem sometimes patients become resistant to the drug and then years after they have been declared to be cancer free they come back .
Learning is one of life is most essential activities and it begins much earlier than we ever imagined .
We understand that these will become much more virulent that what we see today is this interweaving of societies of systems fastened by technologies and hastened by just in time management systems .
CA Post Napster , you actually look like a genius too .
And I just told a little girl named Hyun Sook Lee that if I ever did anything to embarrass her , she did n't say a word in English , even though she looked very American , she could just raise her hand and say `` Stop , '' and I would stop taking the movie .
It was made of cast iron .
It 's my water impression .
The efficiency of the fission process was hoped that they would receive clean bombs they did n't have .
So when I started this I didn not have an overall plan for the machine but I did have a sense of the gesture and a sense of the shape and how it would occupy space .
Which makes for a good life .
A few million people die of HIV and AIDS .
You ca n't plan the kind of thing that will hit us Apophis . It 's 250 meters in diameter , so it would do incredible damage .
We 're all sitting in the same office , yelling at each other all over the office .
There are about 500 chapters in a high school dedicated to stopping genocide in Darfur .
It 's a success , he said .
And I am going to show you two videos that have gotten a lot of attention recently that I think embody this philosophy .
So when does this transition begin .
This is the measure of how well we get through the use of our planet 's resources .
In six seconds , you passed out in 10 seconds , you 're dead .
This series of exhibitions was made specifically to try and question the idea of what it would mean now at this point in history to see art as a catalyst what it means now at this point in history as we define and redefine culture black culture specifically in my case but culture generally .
Okay , here we go .
So these are the problems .
Now while I was writing about this I came upon a book called Man is Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl .
This needs to be fixed because unless you can bring these people into the formal workforce you will end up creating a whole lot of people who are completely disenfranchised .
Although I strongly support the fact that he stole her diary , it 's not me .
And , you know , people would always ask James Watson that he 's not always the most politically correct guy .
Because that is what you do with a cracked pane .
And as a zero-dollar laptop , we can go to countries that ca n't afford it at all .
It is a spirit bear or a Kermode bear .
We are now at stage three on the pandemic alert stage with just a little bit of human to human transmission but no human to human to human sustained transmission .
More than 80 percent of Ivory Coast is development went into the modern sector .
So I really suspect there is an alternative and that life does actually try to do itself in not consciously but just because it does .
On land life turned into an angle . The formed jaws first teeth appeared later .
It 's in your hands , mine and our children .
I have just a few examples , physically really cool , elegant thinking that 's been coming up lately .
That 's not very nice , but we finally had to find out what the answer was .
This is the main psychological plague of humanity in the 21st century .
I 'll have your mailman make dinner plans .
One is Megan the one on the right and Katja over there .
And so this starting material is back to the basic building block .
Now watch carefully . This is popcorn . I 'll explain it here .
There he is .
It is been a long time in coming for me .
And they have bosses who scold them for scribbling in the conference room .
One day a young man looked over my shoulder he said You draw very well .
A water strider is brain doesn not need 3D software at all since it lives on the surface of the pond in an Edwin Abbott flatland .
If they get less and less happy that will be bad for Americans .
Well , I think it looks a little like this .
We know a lot about Mars .
Because what human beings may be biologically defined is our physiology , but God defines humanity by our spirituality by our nature .
We use five polymers in the natural world to do everything that you see .
We have to make this available for people .
My alma mater MIT and I had this moment a kind of M Night Shayamalan moment where I thought Whoa I have to do this .
This year they received only six centimeters .
Only at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries did more than 90 percent of children survive the first year .
One sixth of the GDP in India is coming out of Mumbai .
The behavioral problem was gone .
A thread that connects all our dependence on carbon fuels , such as dirty coal and alien oil .
Host Thank you Thank you .
But what I like about it is that it comes down to someone on the street with a small flat surface screwdriver to clean their contact heads , because they often dirty heads and knowledge .
So in the second version of it there are 100 billion or 1000 billion people on Earth but they are all stored on hard disks or floppies or whatever they have in the future .
Okay so that guy is actually still with us .
And it also supports working class kids going into Indian schools .
And this is the material in the middle that 's what you do if you do n't stop the emissions fast enough .
TD After all , I felt that although I was separated from my loved ones and of course now I am even further away .
We said it would be just for a short period until the 26 We have extended it until the 31 .
And to make that it involves extremes of temperature extremes of pressure and loads of pollution .
That is why perhaps you will try to have this angle of vision .
This is because the form of art collides with a given technology , whether it is a paint on a stone , like the Writer 's Tomb in ancient Egypt , or a relief on a stone column , a 200-foot embroidery , or a painted deer leather and a tree bark on 88 sheets folded into a harmonica .
Some of you may know that he 's TEDster Stephen Sagmeister , and I 'm working on some layouts . And this is still in the initial phase , it 's not the finals , but these images from Worldchangingcom can be placed in any kind of media .
And the way to ask that question is to look at the Neanderthal that comes from Southern Europe and compare it to genomes of people who live today .
And in places where there are worms intestinal worms cure the kids of their worms .
Well in order to reproduce .
I almost could n't finish it .
A small bottle says I just do n't know .
And suddenly , for the same amount , they could have saved seven times more lives .
It 's just the idea that empty space itself has energy .
I can touch it I can play with it .
Because now that we 've only made this molecule available since December last year with 40 labs in the United States and 30 other labs in Europe , many of them are pharmaceutical companies that now want to enter this space to combat this rare cancer , which is fortunately very desirable right now . study in this industry .
We fly people on wires like this .
I come from a region in a remote northwest part of the country .
ZK Right It was that that started a conversation with Professor Suslick and myself and he was explaining to me the things that this is making possible beyond just detecting spoiled food It is really where the significance of it lies .
And I would never want to deprive you of this revelation .
I believe that this will be referred to as a revolution , so to speak , when society in the face of great challenges has made a seismic change from individual acquisition and spending of money towards a rediscovery of the collective good .
I say Oh no I continue .
So the math for neighboring skins is very similar to what we need in the new one .
It is kind of like an Andean Woodstock 60000 Indians on pilgrimage to the end of a dirt road that leads to the sacred valley called the Sinakara which is dominated by three tongues of the great glacier .
Spend the night in jail , spending your day at work .
But like all of us he had some problems .
OK , this is a complete model now we can go to the painting phase .
Only now investment isn not going to be about the relentless and mindless pursuit of consumption growth .
And there is a patent pending on these systems as well that is held by the community .
Back to Yad Vashem three years ago After all this episode began Yad Vashem decided to rebuild completely the historic museum because now Washington was built the Holocaust Museum in Washington and that museum is so much more comprehensive in terms of information .
Then the fairness objection goes away .
The effects of this are well known .
It enters this great debate in the middle of the 19th century . Are the scriptures reliable or can we trust them .
There is an inexhaustible supply of programs out there .
All the other countries for example the United Kingdom can borrow only against the amount of money in circulation inside its own borders .
This search led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome .
Can we get self replicating type behavior .
In addition he is spun off a company from the University called ChemSensing where they are working on medical equipment .
Ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh
That is the good news .
If I essentialize gender for you today then you can dismiss what I have to say .
This means that we may have some form of self-replication .
Philip K Howard Four ways to repair a corrupt legal system .
For example there are different colors and each color gets a different type of singing pop country and western opera jazz and you just have to be consistent with that color .
In fact , I caught one , I completely forgot I caught one .
The first science of cosmology that was anything like science was Aristotelian science and that was hierarchical .
Abuse of steroids binging and so on .
So we went around the table with the studio and the producers and the writer and they came to me and said Shekhar what do you think .
That 's what I 'm gon na see at a height of 90000 feet .
On the other hand , try to say that this is not the case because there is now a scientific consensus about this pattern .
In other cases , they do n't have to submit offers .
When it comes to where we are in science with the ability to identify DNA and so on , it 's not that far away .
We have a list of old viruses here .
They start running an awareness-raising program , watching how it actually works in the city .
Well , men are more adulterous .
And then these fashionable young things on the Sorbonne will tell Madame Draupadi on n'est pas feministe mais ça Ça .
It 's about rediscovering idealism in all these wrecks .
The public sphere must inform us not only where we are geographically , but also where we are in our culture .
You are waiting with bated breath for the final toss .
You can hire these people as employees , coordinate their work and get some results .
And I would like you to imagine that that is a blackboard and I just used some chalk on there .
So again we begin with DNA .
Whether the cells tolerate it or the immune system reacts .
So in this office , you do n't work at a desk like a politician anymore .
I said I like the language of the body that I like the way she talks .
And that Rover will be more kind of like a chemist .
So you ca n't live in fear .
That is why I was there I wanted to invite them to look and explore .
Because I 'm really a sophomore at college right now .
Meanwhile , this rickshaw in India could save and buy antibiotics , and he could buy cooling .
It is not an animal we draw cartoons of or draw at all .
She promised to raise this problem with her community .
Now my break-up was done courtesy of the great Joseph Haydn , the great Austrian composer of the second half of the 18th century , who spent most of his life on the commission of Prince Nikolaus Esterhaze along with his orchestra .
LC Hopefully within the next two years .
Thank you very much .
There 's a side that fights and there 's a side that keeps schools , factories and hospitals open .
But my story , which I would like to share with you today , is about success .
I will do exactly as I am told .
It is bigger than a tiger .
And the ship sinks and the captain has lost everything but for a life jacket .
Statins nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs and a few others they inhibit angiogenesis too .
In every aspect of their lives they wished for progress just as we do .
I mean there is like there is a method that can be deployed for various things .
There 's nothing to worry about , is there ?
They did n't move physically , but they moved mentally .
Then they turn shoulder to shoulder and walk away in their own amazement .
Yeah it is very different no it is not different .
But let 's move on .
Thank you very much .
So our DNA has the ability to perform these kinds of wound healing mechanisms .
And some people say it is because in 9th grade boys start dropping out of school .
If he gets hit , do n't cross the street .
And I say thank you for being here because I was silent for 17 years .
And then in a lecture he gave about clean energy , he pulled it out and said that people at MIT are giving out periodic plates .
Eventually my mom took the red crayon away so it was unclear .
This is how the shape works in normal receptors .
And this problem has now been resolved in a purely engineering manner .
And a wonderful man named Miles Loyd , who lives on the outskirts of San Francisco , wrote this groundbreaking article that was completely ignored in the Journal of Energy about how to use a plane on a string to generate huge amounts of electricity .
So my page is on quite a few volunteers ' watch lists because it is sometimes vandalized .
We were able to because we had trained people in filmmaking continue with our work and send our Wiwa and Arhuaco filmmakers to the final sacred lakes to get the last shots for the film and we followed the rest of the Arhuaco back to the sea taking the elements from the highlands to the sea .
This is an aerial picture that I made that shows the Gulf of St Lawrence during harp seal season .
So now I can sort out the pictures I 've wanted to sort out for a long time .
It 's the kind of 3D data the machine will read .
We have been studying this thing they call the kinetochore for over a hundred years with intense study and we are still just beginning to discover what it is all about .
So let is start with the data .
I mean , the world has changed disproportionately to what we would have recognized even 1,000 or 2,000 years ago .
There is no way that this type of hemorrhage of human life could be accepted anywhere other than Africa .
And this is the nationalism of an idea that basically says that you can put up with differences in caste religion , culture of colors , culinary customs and costumes that are consistent with this problem and continue to accumulate around consensus .
I 'm gon na point out a few that I really like .
Bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate PET will sink in seawater and will not be so far from civilization .
Start with telling them what the market is .
When you are pre immunized what happens is you have forces in your body pre trained to recognize and defeat specific foes .
And then as now it was a beautiful place of balls and punts beautiful people many of whom took to heart Ronald Reagan is comment that even if they say hard work doesn not do you any harm why risk it .
The American dream of individual land ownership turned out to be a very clever way to divide the reserve so that nothing left .
Not because it 's trivial , not because we do n't care .
No fear , no agony .
As humans , we are sensitive to where the object in our hand is heavy .
They all live in colonies consisting of one or a few queens and then all the ants you see walking around are sterile female workers .
And of course it will bring great things .
Because we take this data in 3D form , dividing it before it passes through the machine , we can actually create structures that are more complicated than any other production technology or can actually not be built in any other way .
But I do n't want a duplicate , even if I ca n't tell the difference .
Gradually reducing it , lowering it .
So essentially you are able to achieve quite high rates of condom use in commercial sex .
So that 's what I learned from the bread .
We have a choice ahead of us .
And one of the stories he told me so often when I was a young boy was of the first British atomic bomb test .
The solution is that these structures , despite their initial appearance , are not equivalent to the fact that when you turn the microscope on human knowledge , you see that there is a subtle difference between them in the meaning .
When it comes to dexterity , it 's not even clear what algorithm you need to solve to be dexterous .
Because we doctors do what we get paid to do and we get trained to do what we get paid to do so if we change insurance then we change medical practice and medical education .
There are several hundred mammals , six million species of insects .
Besides , here 's number one .
Here , the camera actually understands how you hold the paper and play car racing .
Darwin is an idea , and Mendel is an idea .
Well a reasonable expectation is that somebody is fame in a given period of time should be roughly the average of their fame before and their fame after .
And it is something that always drove all his choices .
But for this part of the story I would actually like to throw it to America is leading technology correspondent John Markoff .
Stephen Coleman The moral dangers of non lethal weapons .
I felt like there was a scene in the Al Pacino The Insider movie that you might know when he was going back to CBS after they let him down because of the tobacco guy and he 's going .
Now we can chase them again Go get them .
So early on we developed the notion of putting in watermarks in the DNA to absolutely make clear that the DNA was synthetic .
It is something to be greatly optimistic about .
It is got 96 sensors 36 onboard computers 100000 lines of behavioral autonomy code packs more than 10 kilos of TNT in electrical onboard equivalent .
And after we failed I just kept failing .
So what we 're looking at is general social dysfunction related to inequality .
Now I can not imagine I am sorry you may have a better imagination than I do I can not imagine losing my arm and typically at 22 years old .
So he chose 27 professionals , they were engineers , physicists , mathematicians , architects , furniture designers , and even artists , and he asked them to come one night and bring the problem they 're working on .
Look at this graph here : In 1968 you could buy one transistor for a dollar .
Why I had shown in the early 2000s that countries with a higher proportion of trustworthy people are more prosperous .
So it looks like they 're starting with a lot of money .
It poisoned his blood , died when I was 11 .
We were invited to create a huge installation at the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics . They were used to control the lighting of the CN Tower , Canadian Parliament buildings and Niagara Falls from all over the country , using their minds .
But I am also sure that due to the bonds that people create and the ability of ideas to meet and associate , as never before , I am also sure that technology will develop and thus improve the standard of living .
These are the guys on the ink opening line .
So unlike what we heard a few months ago about how 75 percent of this oil magically disappeared and we did n't have to worry about it , this disaster is still going on .
So let is go back to Sudan .
Not like I 'm a game designer , I 'm vibrant .
This is called a cycle valve tube .
I am happy I am alive I am happy I am alive .
They choose very carefully who they connect with .
And the thing that the ordinary Afghan is most concerned with is Clare Lockhart is here so I will recite a discussion she had with an illiterate woman in Northern Afghanistan .
Now take this together , and you will receive 23 million words TEDTalks , or about three Bibles .
So I started my life as an architect or training as an architect and I was always interested in socially responsible design and how you can really make an impact .
This is not right It requires thinking .
And you see it stops growing .
And there 's more and more people on the way .
We are just beginning to understand how physical oceanography and biological oceanography join together , creating a seasonal force that actually causes upwelling , which can make a hot spot of hope .
There is no longer any consistency in the surface signals .
But I want you to realize that resources in the hands of African women is a powerful tool .
Well you probably recognize the first person .
I did an advertising campaign for Schweppes which is Coca Cola and so that was very interesting in terms of the legalities .
I 'm saying we 're homo duplex and this staircase leads us from profanum to sacrum .
And they don not always work together I like Freud is theory that most of them are cancelling each other out .
And if there 's a risk that Western businessmen will be so excited , I mean , they 're used to ideas to do things and they deeply believe in their ability to change the world .
It 's gon na be a pretty crowded place for at least eight billion people .
This is a friction climb up in Tuolumne Meadows in the Yosemite high country .
Usually , because we can create products very quickly , it is used by product designers or anyone who wanted to prototype the product and very quickly create or repeat the project .
All the movements stopped at falsifying .
No It should be Go Go Gadget .
That 's why I decided to recruit some of my friends from TED to read my words out loud .
It 's pointless .
And if it went really well , we could do three parabolas .
And why is it so difficult initially .
He does n't hit the headlines , he does n't publish the news , he 's not noisy .
We are all totally recyclable .
And then we gave them options that were bonuses , just like you did in the first scenario , so they actually have more chances or parts where they lost , and they really thought they 'd get more than they really got .
It 's just about being yourself and being cool .
In the middle of the above photograph there is a back where the arrow appears , which shows you a little bit .
I believe that chimpanzees more than any living creature have helped us to understand that there is still no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom .
The biologist Lewis Wolpert believes that the queerness of modern physics is just an extreme example Science as opposed to technology does violence to common sense .
Invest financial assistance , but also management assistance .
So I do something now I have never ever done on a Dirty Jobs shoot ever .
And the answer is that you 're not only slowing down technological progress , you can reverse it .
I think it is important to kind of look at these pictures of the birds and understand what happens to us .
Everyone has done something .
Now , according to today , there is a topic that I would like to draw attention to and something that you already know that sometimes a small advantage in some place in life can bring great results elsewhere .
And even for a short time , you become a storyteller that the whole community listens to .
I will read just one more I don not usually say that .
I mean you probably saw these headlines This is Catherine Casey who is the first boomer to actually get Social Security .
Fey has shown much more effective than any political expert that the candidate is a fundamental lack of seriousness , which perpetuates the impression that the majority of American public opinion still has today .
Or more importantly HIV where the virus evolves so quickly the vaccines that are made today can not keep up with those evolutionary changes .
Now I am destined to spend a lot of time with some unique very very special individualistic and often seductive female characters .
How did they get me to do that .
We do n't have to go into space to answer that question .
There 's no Ras , Myc , and P53 .
This is clonal colony of Quaking Aspen trees living in Utah that is literally 80000 years old .
One who knows what she 's going through , the other worries about exemplary behavior and milk .
But when you do read the links it is really quite remarkable .
I ca n't believe I 'm here .
Kiwis are like those hawks trapped near Antarctica .
And that this of course one of the themes for us is that we think that candor and brutal honesty is critical to us collectively being great parents .
They said they 'd stop .
You do n't want to push people out just to save them , it 's really confusing .
This is a record of who you are .
So together it 's as if a rat could put a virtual grid of shooting sites in its surroundings , a little bit similar to the latitude and longitude lines that can be found on the map , but using triangles .
Saul Griffith on everyday inventions .
I am smartly designed .
Take an example .
How about Mowgli 's nothe Jungle Book ?
This one is a little more sophisticated and comes from a study we conducted in Uganda about how people who share devices use these devices .
This is something called an underground forest .
We actually share the same genealogy with Ozzie the iceman .
The most thoughtless epidemic we are currently in is the absurd fight between the proponents of genetically modified food and the organic elite .
So the baby 's being treated .
Here is a clip from a National Geographic movie that came out in 1999 .
The parents were looking in the window .
I am not trying to solve the Middle East problem .
A picture you know from the Amazon rainforest .
What I want you to imagine is this is two tons in weight .
She is turning it inside out .
And I kept I said you know I swear to God I tasted star anise .
One of the other things about the camel is beautiful design is that its penis points backwards .
Very powerful .
And as I grew up I heard so much knowledge and so many insights and so much wisdom come out around this table I began to call it the wisdom table .
I 'll leave you to the story .
'Cause we 're doing ground mining .
But authority does n't impress us because it 's so easy to come up with .
When we did this , we realized that this is the basic problem of taking a sip of coffee , people are dealing with this complicated process , and that what we really need to do is automate this process , like an assembly line , and build robots that measure proteomics .
Moreover , in the entire region , in the southern polar region , there are high temperatures . It is the hottest place on our planet on the body .
Yesterday we heard about the importance of new materials .
The average depths are about 12,000 feet .
NASA was n't interested in trying to destroy the project .
So it 's not just young women who benefit from it .
A satellite picture looking down at the earth .
A set of tools exists .
It 's 2010 .
They grow up to 10 meters .
And this whole discussion , like it 's some kind of economic burden , is a secret to me .
There are n't that many Californian sea lions out there .
This disease can be prevented by the waste of life .
Six and a half days is certainly a lethal dose .
And he says It seems as if the ideal argument for most philosophers is you give your audience the premises and then you give them the inferences and the conclusion and if they don not accept the conclusion they die .
I learned from Wikipedia that starting from this humble beginning , PLATO set up online discussion forums , testing rooms for e-mail calls , image languages , Internet communicators , remote sharing of screens and games for many players .
And this was collected by Anapuma , which is like he 's finally got nothing , because it 's going to evaporate .
So the secret door is one of the shelves you ca n't see when you come in , but they slowly open .
Over time , they will contribute to the development of Africa and science in a way that we can only imagine .
It 's still very early stages , and we actually did it for laughter to see how it worked out .
How we protect it in the future .
In 2001 , television humor in September 2001 is once and for all evaluated .
And this is not in some abstract metaphorical sense .
If I know when I was young that by killing an elephant I am destroying biodiversity I would not have done it .
How could that work .
Strong force works between quarks , which carry a different kind of cargo called color charge and occur in three different varieties : red-green and blue .
As you all know , returning from exile the second temple transformed Judaism .
So you can see on these diagrams that the protocell is really moving away from the light towards the dark foundations .
Conservatives on the other hand speak for institutions and traditions .
And I have also been called as an Egyptian Lebanese Syrian American with a Persian name the Middle East Peace Crisis .
Najmuddin 's comment said Mahmoud had something to prove .
Young women who live in areas with high maternal mortality change their behavior less in response to HIV than young women who live in areas with low maternal mortality .
He was such a freak , and this stash probably saved his life because they thought no other rival gang member would go near them to shoot them with a pad .
The best way to help Africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet .
And by the way , it 's continued .
Well I was a grown man who had all of these rituals and it got so there was a throbbing there was a ferocious fear in my head .
And it is going to change the world as we know it .
And she said Well it is pretty but you know our color really it is green And I learned then that listening isn not just about patience but that when you have lived on charity and dependent your whole life long it is really hard to say what you mean .
You can make a lot of reinforcements in it .
I am an apprentice and I work with the people who actually do the jobs in question .
Our own technologies are visible from the interstellar distances and their technologies can also be seen .
It 's just an example .
OK think of how many letters in the title of his name .
One or another set of ideas simply replaced our biological imperatives in our lives .
It can contemplate the meaning of infinity ask questions about the meaning of its own existence about the nature of God .
And so they lock into those receptors and they jam recognition of the real thing .
Soon food became scarce with many Dutch surviving on just 500 calories a day a quarter of what they consumed before the war .
One of them is that Sally Clark was innocent which is a priori overwhelmingly likely most mothers don not kill their children .
It is two people dropping the pretense of being know it alls .
We drilled through a hundred meters of floating ice shelf then through 900 meters of water and then 1300 meters into the sea floor .
It is like saying If you toss a coin and get a head the first time that won not affect the chance of getting a head the second time .
And that what we add on top is kind of false It is a fake version .
Today , most African stories speak of hunger , HIV , AIDS , poverty , or war .
And not only were we able to study them , but we could ask them questions about what was in them .
I talked to them .
I later heard that Iraqi casualties were not to be treated in Taji .
BG So fifth grade math is where that is going on right now .
And it funds a lot of my research .
So she and I had a delightful conversation .
And start playing with the idea of alternative currencies .
And the distribution of Japanese is totally different where we see a group of intermediate sounds which is known as the Japanese R .
So I 'm a pediatrician and a stem cell researcher at Stanford University , where my clinical goal was bone marrow transplantation .
How can we close this gap or , let 's say , narrow it down over the years .
First of all , he had an amazing ability to empathize and think about other people 's viewpoints .
I am Mr. Michael Bangora , son of the late Mr. Tiam Bangor , who was Minister of Finance in Sierra Leone , but died during the civil war .
How do we go and have a world where we both have libraries and publishing in the future just as we basically benefited as we were growing up .
They 're particularly dangerous because there 's no mask on my face .
And that is the period in which the brain is setting up in its initial form its basic processing machinery .
In a balloon or in life , as we change altitude .
Because we believe that it is not biology it is culture .
So I said Yeah I will leave it here for two months .
He imagined that instead of being turned off after leaving the program , the programs would continue to work and basically all such things , such as Windows , act as a multicellular organism on many computers , he imagined it all .
My father made false papers for the American deserters who did not wish to take up arms against the Vietnamese .
It 's a new world .
We see deforestation , we see an expanding desert , we see a huge hunger , we see diseases and we see population growth in areas where more people live than the earth can sustain and are too poor to buy food elsewhere .
This is today 's genomic revolution .
He wanted the main character of the film to be played from the cradle to the grave by one actor .
MA Well I do think when there are more women that the tone of the conversation changes and also the goals of the conversation change .
Every neuron is different .
I 've been dealing with poverty issues for over 20 years , so the irony of fate is that the problem that I 'm dealing with most with is how poverty is actually defined .
We are ready to spend 15 years achieving education .
Baron Cohen explained that certain disabilities may appear in the hacker and computer world as huge skills and that we should not throw people who have such disabilities and skills into prison because they are lost socially or have been deceived .
I think mobile phone companies appear literally every week and have a sharp increase in cell phone numbers .
But I think the bigger problem is that logic is that we should drop iPods instead of bombs , and I mean it would be a fascinating title for Thomas Friedman , it 's a new book .
So one of the answers was George Clooney .
He 's gon na retire for 44 percent of what he made at work .
So in other aspects of life , which are much more important than buying things , the same explosion of choice is true .
China still has large areas of underdevelopment and per capita income is a better measure of the sophistication of the economy .
And here we see the difference between crows and other animals .
I 'll take the answers .
I got fired in 1956 No , it 's not true I went out in 1956 I worked at the University of Washington in 1959 and came up with an idea reading an article in a magazine about a new type of phonograph arm tone .
At that point I became a little more ambitious and decided to see what else could children do with a computer .
There 's a new place in New York where crowds are the densest in Ground Zero .
And then I realized that when Farma says , which has no impurities , he did a big understatement , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the Guadalquivir River .
And when we take a sample and we hybridize it to it we get a unique fingerprint if you will quantitatively of what genes are turned on in that sample .
The first words of Discipline all over the earth are : We are gods and we must be good at it .
It 's like you 're in love with Paris for the first time after drinking three double espressos .
In the front you see actually Joe Murray getting the patient ready for the transplant while in the back room you see Hartwell Harrison the Chief of Urology at Harvard actually harvesting the kidney .
They are able to respond to gravity of course so the shoots are growing against the vector of gravity and the roots toward the vector of gravity .
So if I 'm covering my left eye , I 'm talking about myself personally , not all of you .
That 's a 50 % deflation rate .
And I want to point out that if there 's anything worth celebrating in India , it 's not the economic power of military muscle .
I 'm happy to say it 's happening now .
If you did n't have a job , it 's because you did n't want one .
Well , I 've come up with seven things that , in my opinion , show you how you can take these lessons from the games and use them outside the games .
Especially small children attract colorful packaging and plastic toys .
Create killer apps if you want .
Chris Anderson So some flaming material .
And I 'll tell you , corn is in everything .
A better business model a better way to bigger profits .
Collaborator I felt really sad when he died .
This is a picture in the studio .
And by the way the distinction between relieving misery and building happiness is extremely important .
It was basically said that anyone near the stream could participate in the stream .
Okay , this is the video Thanks .
But just watch this .
I sat with him a few weeks ago .
It was a whole new bone that was implanted using these techniques .
And we were n't able to convince the Bombay Fire Department where a few years ago there was a flood , and people had to walk 20 kilometers in the water to make it look like you should have this cycle in your fire department , because then you can go on those lanes that do n't drive buses and do n't drive transport .
Three weeks ago , I was with Sony 's company in Tokyo .
So Indra came and sacrificed his horse .
They can use both my hands I can use chording actions I can just go right up and use all 10 fingers if I wanted to .
First no real sports fan would talk that way .
So what I would like to do today is have something of a discussion .
Most people buy the Aston Martin I built .
And I think it is the reason that TV is so challenged .
There were only small , ingeniously placed paint stains .
Anyway , this is how it composes and assembles a business building in the city centre , and that 's what happened when we tried to do it again in Glens Falls , New York , where it was missing .
As a black person in America , I have twice as likely a white person living in an area where air pollution poses the greatest threat to my health .
New materials that can make water new materials that can make fuel cells work better , new materials catalyzing chemical reactions that reduce pollution and so on .
It was such a beautiful machine because it did everything a person did when setting fonts , including restoring fonts to its place , which was very difficult .
It costs about 10 dollars a piece to go and take a disk and put it online if you are doing things in volume .
So now the Independent Diplomat is in the process of convening meetings between the UN Security Council and the parties to disputes on the agenda of the Security Council .
And unfortunately on YouTube there is many cats mating videos .
The second step is to develop self - teaching and self - control .
A lot of you got Phillips Direct Life .
This is the only trouser and shirt remind me of this .
One of the locations was this place called Tiger Beach in the northern Bahamas where tiger sharks aggregate in shallow water .
And since this flying tower has the ability to capture all the flawless elements suddenly , the rest of the environment can be provisional.You can drill and replace the nail screw lacquer at minimal cost .
It has been directed towards the future since 1946 , looking at the day on which all American families have it .
So compare carbon and nuclear energy to their waste products .
So my life is much more complicated because of the baby , but it 's okay .
How is it that the colony manages to adjust the numbers of workers performing each task as conditions change .
You can make a lot of changes you can build roads .
You can not stop thinking about another human being .
Google creates Google Zeitgeist , who checks search queries to see what 's going on , what people are interested in , and publishes them with lots of funny charts .
Child mortality dropped by two-thirds .
But then if you lose one of those second set of teeth they don not regrow unless if you are a lawyer .
I think the WorldWide Telescope will convince you that we may be tiny but we are truly wonderfully significant .
You 'll see the ones called flashbulbs by psychiatrists .
In fact most of that happened on just one day .
And we need strong smart confident young women to stand up and take the reins .
He says check the box below if you do n't want to participate .
And we 're doing about 300,000 .
Why do they do that Because it is cheaper because they don not pay the real environmental costs .
Then use this information to drive the solutions .
You see this really salty Play Doh .
If I give you the letter Q and ask you to predict the next letter what do you think that would be .
Poor people people whose human rights have been violated the crux of that is the loss of dignity the lack of dignity .
You just need a ton .
Our search for this has taken us to the market the farm and to the spice cabinet because what we have discovered is that mother nature has laced a large number of foods and beverages and herbs with naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis .
Reform is no use anymore because that is simply improving a broken model .
Some critics say the software 's stuck in the mud .
We have a global celebration , and we 've actually started to know that we 've seen the worst of them .
So the arguments at the third meeting are quite well-trained .
This is the third part of the series .
The government cut them off from all printing houses in Bratislava .
That 's how it actually works .
When I first heard this theme I thought well embracing otherness is embracing myself .
It 's a world that Von Neumann imagined himself .
It is only proper that you here at TED hear and see it first .
Then we comb the cells and grow cells outside the body .
What are other ways to provide the same amount of space on the site ?
Hospital acquired infections are now killing more people every year in the United States than die from AIDS or cancer or car accidents combined about 100000 .
And what 's going on is that I 'm going to show you some rain streaks right now , and within 20 minutes , it goes straight down , and within 24 hours , the deadly radiation comes out with the prevailing winds , and that 's mostly in this particular direction to the northeast .
But I saw how the level of moral standard can rise from one person is action .
First of all , Muslims pious , conservative , Muslim believers who want to be loyal to their religion should not stick to everything in their culture , thinking that it is from a divine mandate .
It was n't until years later , looking back at this whole age of cause/change of birth , it occurred to me that I was n't seven years old when I thought I was seven years old , that I had a whole month to do everything I wanted before God started keeping an eye on me .
People call me a game designer , but I really think of these things more like toys .
And these cognitive prejudices act as filters between us and reality .
Now since you guys are really great maybe you can humor me and say this all together too .
I 'm interested .
First all the individuals are only aware of their nearest neighbors .
And with the blessing of Trulshik Rinpoche we began a pilgrimage to a curious destination accompanied by a great doctor .
Booted up in a cell the program would execute and it could result in this person or with a small change it could result in this person or another small change this person or with a larger change this dog or this tree or this whale .
We need a positive feedback loop to increase prosperity , and at government level , they can create national welfare accounts .
And I like the guy with the cigar at the bottom there .
It is the exchange of ideas , the meeting and the combination of ideas between them that causes technological progress gradually , gradually .
My father was murdered .
Low cost family restaurant chain for those of you who don not know it .
Because you can type you know any kind of thing into Google and you expect an answer back right .
I 'm doing this because at least you had a chance , you know .
How do we actually know that those sentences coming out of our mouths are true stories that you know are true sentences .
Miles per gallon is the way we present things .
The Elizabethans described language as decorated silence .
It is full of all kinds of gyroscopes and pulleys and gadgets and ball bearings and they don not work as well as they ought to in the heat of battle .
Are these images of the past now ?
A total of seven guys enter anonymously in their underwear .
So that is a sort of tough choice .
This is my social experience .
So you 're either in the woods or in the pastures , and you see an ant crawling around with that blade of grass .
So the question is how to move from a village from a muddy hut to a more developed city , to even a highly developed Sultanbelya .
And moving on to some applications developed by developers and researchers around the world with robots and simple machines for example in this case flying a toy helicopter simply by thinking lift with your mind .
And that is when it happened .
And now you want me to give up this money and ship it to a stranger .
But overthrowing the government is one thing , and building a stable democracy is a little more complicated .
Because offices are well equipped , everything should be there so they can do their job , but they do n't want to go there right now , so how to change it .
It is essentially a big microwave transmitter .
Masters and Johnson were skeptics , which is really funny .
And when it happened , people knew what it was like , you know , they called it by name .
That percentage by the way is about the same in the US and Germany and France .
Things are changing and today , on the U.N. Statistical Department 's home page , full access to databases is given to the first of May .
On the one hand it pays lip service to the idea of rebuild an effective state in the image of Scandinavia in the 1950s .
By far the simplest method is to buy a pre made videodisc and HyperCard stacks from a commercial supplier .
When we did that here is a new experiment that we did we put an animal and had it run this grass spider on a surface with 99 percent of the contact area removed .
But there are blogs that change the way we read the news and consume the media , and you know that these are great examples . These people reach thousands , if not millions of readers , and this is extremely important .
There are drawbacks to this .
And it is all coming out of things that look like this .
Everything boils down to that .
We want you to be our eyes , we 'll shake your legs .
As a result , we would all feel completely safe and have a good time , but because we all understood the rules and agreed them together .
AB 987 squared is 974169 .
Yeah , I like that guy .
And the way it got to some people that day , because I know people who wanted to vote in your direction , and they did n't , and I was upset , but there were emotions .
They 're made of silica .
And that means more encouragement to carry out research and development , for the benefit of everyone in the world .
So we are sharing tools and technology and language Thank you .
They need to learn to respect themselves .
They are referred to as nuclear batteries .
Now in the early 1970s in Ankara that was a bit unusual .
They grow in tropical forests such as this , as well as in temperate rainforests that we meet in Washington State .
In fact , a recent study that almost upstairs me , a recent study showing how serious life traumas affect people , suggests that if this happened more than three months ago , with a few exceptions , it has no impact on your happiness .
So Ham Smith and Clyde Hutchison developed some new methods for making error free DNA at a small level .
We had no funding for it .
In 1987 , I was a new mother with my first child and I held her and fed her when a picture like this appeared on TV .
With body language here is what you have got to do .
AB I think you left out the number 3 .
Fast forward two years later we now have window farms which are vertical hydroponic platforms for food growing indoors .
They 're dimming your urine .
But you know I have a problem with kids , these are books that I think are full of propaganda .
It 's like you 're being mean to your wife because you 're mad at someone else .
So , starting with political philosophy .
So here 's the ladies in the red hats .
The lower layer our gut brain has its own goals digestion defense and we have the higher brain with the goal of integration and generating behaviors .
Finger finger finger pink or finger .
And it made me go out and look at these mines , and then I went out and looked at the biggest industrial intrusions in the landscape I could find .
Just as one strand of spaghetti contacts many other strands on your plate one neuron touches many other neurons through their entangled branches .
And it is a real shame Now why has this come about .
And if you 've heard from an early age that nothing good will come out of your community , which is bad and ugly , then how could it not affect you ?
And it is this cylinder that is the declaration of God-led ruler who overthrows the Iraqi despot and intends to bring freedom to people .
I 'm about to show you that a stack of paper would probably fit about 100,000 tests of something like this .
Now if you saw a picture of this as it was published in Architectural Record they didn not show the context so you would think God what a pushy guy this is .
This is one very large crater Geologists love craters because craters are like digging a big hole in the ground without really working at it and you can see what is below the surface .
Ed Rawlings , 103 years old , currently active cowboy , starts the day with a bath .
And she said , `` O , no . '' Only for everyone except Ralph Nader .
So in life and in papercutting everything is connected .
Take a look at this little tuft of capillaries .
So people hear it and come to the following conclusion , just like we did when we were doing the research .
Either case it is bad news for the corals of the Galapagos Islands .
This little squid is called the fire shooter because of its ability to do this .
But the most important thing here is who we finance .
And a current integrated circuit might have in each one of these chips something like a billion transistors all of which have to work perfectly every time .
Larger markets increase motivation to create all kinds of ideas , whether it 's software or a computer chip or a new project .
It was lucky for me , because most of the press photos show up , too , although Sophia is often between her legs .
Taiwan replaced China under Mao Zedong , but no .
If I doubt my older sister is ability to pay back the 10 percent interest I established on her last loan I am going to withhold her ability to get more money from me until she pays it back .
And it 's the poor people who are more touched .
That 's why it 's very difficult to get there if you do it physically .
And that is one of the basic reasons why it is so difficult to talk about this problem , and in general I think that is the basic reason why it is politically unacceptable to talk about it .
Here we have it running at high speed mode .
When you want less , it 's because it 's about work .
He 's unconscious .
And all I could detect was this energy energy .
The thing is , I learned that and the technology people who are here , and I 'm not one of them , but apparently it takes 30 years for a lot of technology to become really endemic to us , like the mouse , the Internet and Windows .
So something to think about tonight if you have had a couple .
And if you blow that up and zoom in 900 times you see there are hairs there tiny hairs And if you look carefully those tiny hairs have striations And if you zoom in on those 30000 times you will see each hair has split ends .
Mom , you have no shame .
Mother nature doesn not negotiate she just sets rules and describes consequences .
If you don not get the policy reform and the aid you don not get the economic recovery which is the true exit strategy for the peacekeepers .
And now put the lens over the galaxy and what you will find is that you will see a ring an Einstein ring .
These are three feathers A B1 B2 .
If you are going to make many films about a particular group of animals , you might as well choose one that is quite common .
And what you see , for example , if the flag was in the place where the cross was in a small square environment , then , if you ask people where it is , but you have increased the environment in which they think the flag was stretched in exactly the same way as the firing point of the cell stretched out .
Frans Lanting are lyrical pictures of nature .
We think that if we could gather this and that all the conditions something that we say Everything to be happy to have everything to be happy .
Well , this idea of biomystery respecting the wisdom of all species combined with the idea of democracy and social justice , respecting the wisdom and value of all people , would give us a different society .
You have to admit that is a pretty boss piece of detective work for an old man on a date .
I have one gram five gram 10 gram How many gram do you want .
We asked that to a junkie and they are like Are you nuts .
So you do n't want to optimize the efficiency you want to optimize for power per dollar .
And then there is improvising on a scale quarter notes metronome right hand scientifically very safe but musically really boring .
My body is numb with grief .
I realized then that I , who thought that I had complete control over my life , controlled only three things . I thought I was thinking about the images that created these thoughts and the actions that came from them .
We did include some things that are hopefully useful .
What we wanted from each other .
American education is so expensive .
When we find a match , we apply the rules set by the right-holder .
I will give you an example .
And if women failed to birth male children they were basically treated like domestic servants .
I never have enough even if I am a billionaire I don not have enough .
There 's a joke that someone wrote with a pencil .
Adhesives were replacing the rivets .
And thus was born the project called Remark which is a collaboration with Zachary Lieberman and the Ars Electronica Futurelab .
And the poem is called Spring and Autumn .
Some of them the most important are mental .
It 's another great opportunity that opens up .
I formed a theory and I am going to share it now in my remaining two minutes and 30 seconds .
We can not expand anymore because it erodes the planetary boundaries .
It 's a small amount of material , but the way it 's finally expressed is what causes changes in humans and all species .
Two months later and this is now documented in the Information Technology for International Development journal that accents had changed and were remarkably close to the neutral British accent in which I had trained the speech to text synthesizer .
Well , that 's not enough anymore .
And in the corner of one of these one of my notes is this note that says when asked what do you think of conventional foie gras .
By looking at the proportions and combinations of different kinds of pollen in a sample you can tell very precisely where it came from .
So through some of the hottest topics on microblogging we can see what young people care most about .
They take this sanctuary very seriously in time .
A few weeks later , when Zacarias Moussaoui was charged with six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism , and the US government called him to be punished with the death penalty if my husband and I publicly spoke against it .
The texture changed in the drums this time .
One set of DNA goes to one side the other side gets the other set of DNA identical copies of DNA .
And they said Ha There won not be a single moment in the schedule .
And they were great fun .
The other ethnic groups which did have chiefs made sure that they surrounded the chiefs with councils upon councils upon councils to prevent them from abusing their power .
It is a great story and it is understandable why they would be reluctant to revise it .
Hollywood has rivalries , and Valley has rivals .
And you can never repeat that performance twice .
Late 1911 early 1912 there was a race to be the first to the South Pole the heart of the Antarctic continent .
Amy Tan on creativity .
So it could have a negative impact on the whole population .
Boom .
That is a lot of information .
Once again , you only need a few people .
The company did not succeed and he couldn not pay the money back and I was the guarantor of the note So I had a $ 100000 debt and I noticed that the Kramer prize for human powered flight which had then been around for 17 years at the time was 50000 pounds which at the exchange rate was just about 100000 dollars .
For example , these are hydrogen-producing algae .
Our mentor mothers are trained and retrained every year .
In Mongolia for instance where 30 percent of the people are nomadic SMS information systems are being used to track migration and weather patterns .
So now we have the Blue Gene supercomputer .
We 're going to rebuild your knee with some parts .
People tried very hard to do that .
We hope there will be seven million by the end of next year .
The same place feeds over 30 families .
If you 'd looked at one of these galaxies and measured its speed , it would have drifted away from you .
We raised the money and we are thrilled that we did because in this phase of one is life the incredibly scarce resource is time .
But hey at least it is hygienic .
Or when you 're overeating because your feelings are hurt or anything else .
Now these are my comrades in arms .
But I think from the Neanderthal 's point of view , there would be a lot of disapproval for the wimps that we have now .
Well the Northwest Passage is already there .
The point is that as part of this continuum , you identify a series of points and design especially for them .
He 's working on a whole series of dolls that explain where the kids come from .
I mean if this would require thousands of years then it is worthless in terms of controlling of these pathogens .
And after the quake we started bringing in earthquake engineers to figure out why the buildings collapsed to examine what was safe and what wasn not .
On that schematic picture a sort of time lapse picture we are halfway .
And then we thought it was stupid .
It 's Saturday . It 's Christmas .
And that was that the Internet loves Mister Splashy Pants .
This blue line is my brain wave .
Oops I am sorry What was going on .
This may be the only way we 're really going to be able to achieve our own human potential and be a truly noble species that we all hope to be .
So I decided to go on a trip .
I will give you a couple seconds .
I 'll turn on the trails so you can see it a little better .
What has happened in the last 15 years with this work .
But even I , in my immorality , sometimes brushed myself against this thing .
Kiribati froze mining operations in the current state , while we increase capital .
Or that World Weekly News is up to something .
This has been a lot of fun .
But when you get down to the bottom of the ocean that is where things get really strange .
So it copies itself and scatters the templates through the ocean .
And of course , like recreational parks , you can still do it .
Now , in three short years , we have come a long way thanks to stand up comedy programs that have even taken place in Saudi Arabia .
No job , no money , no security , no prospects .
In a way , they use Bush 's administration as an alibi .
MM I will not go back .
Master/Slave at the MOMA the project series a piece called Parasite .
That 's how scitodes feed .
The error margin is narrow Here I put life expectancy at birth from 30 years in some countries up to about 70 years .
But I feel like a bird sometimes .
Every row across here represents one of those 11 zones .
That is the question that sort of hit me in the middle of a Davos afternoon about four years ago .
So you can go like this .
We find this in every country we look at .
We must put away what has been lost .
Maybe the important thing is that nine diamonds OK .
This is still at the Metropolitan Museum now for sale .
Showed them all the pictures of General Tso Chicken that I showed you and they are like we don not know this dish .
Chris Anderson Yes AB Yeah OK I will tell you what Chris as long as you have that book in front of you do me a favor turn to a year outside of the 1900s either into the 1800s or way into the 2000s that will be a much greater challenge for me .
It 's also painful .
How you 're gon na scale .
When Homer Simpson must imagine the most distant moment possible not only of the clock , but of the entire crazy calendar , he invents 0400 on the Birthday of the Child Jesus .
You will say How can we trust them .
Have you found Wikipedia being used by teachers and how do you see Wikipedia changing education .
That is why all of this that you are going through the ups and the downs the teachers that you love and the teachers that you don not why it is so important .
When you think about it , you 'll see that these are n't statistical points , you 'll see how far I 've talked .
We were there a week ago when there were 7,000 people on the street and it was really a miracle . And when we walked down the streets , people from Juarez , who normally do n't even go out on the streets because the streets are so dangerous , literally standing there crying , seeing that other people from the world appeared in this particular community .
So it really means that our structures now have plans for what we want to build .
That is us in New York .
Here is a close up of the fossil after five years of cleaning preparation and description which was very long and I had to expose the bones from the sandstone block I just showed you in the previous slide .
This is Sleep the Virtual Choir .
Wow audience .
She said it was a big obstacle just for farmers to touch under the vulva .
Working with Larry Lessig it will be somewhere in that process posted with tools and limited use copyrights so that young people can remix it and do it in their own way .
What about global policy ?
In that sense I like to think of my fiction as both local and universal both from here and everywhere .
But we did know one thing .
When you observe people interacting with animals or other people , there is very little feedback , it is too rare .
So the throwing exercise showed stimulation of frontal and parietal lobes , which are related to visual sharpness in three-dimensional understanding and solving structural problems , so it gives the feeling that it helps to develop their visualization skills and foresight abilities .
For example , bird singing is a sound that most people find soothing .
We 're going to zoom in and zoom in .
In hospitals for new medical instruments on the streets for traffic control .
So if you have the opportunity , try it .
TR It 's a little hard to hear the whole message , so I wanted to , so I wanted to help you out a little .
They happened at the conference table at a weekly laboratory meeting when everyone gathered together and shared the latest data and findings , often when people shared the mistakes they made , the mistake , the noise in the signal they discovered .
Right now it 's what I 'd say , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling , mumbling ahh .
When you look at DNA origami you can see that what it really is even though you think it is complicated is a bunch of double helices that are parallel to each other and they are held together by places where short strands go along one helix and then jump to another one .
Now how recently do we share this ancestry .
But within a quarter of a century , we 've witnessed the madness of all the basic auxiliary technologies since then .
They implicated actually the Spanish government amazingly .
There are two different ways to find out if some of the data is missing in action .
I happen to find a funny guy who introduced it in Arabic , who originally was Korean , perfect for Axis of Evil .
Their brains and bodies will be dwarfed .
It is the Styrofoam and chocolate game .
What 's gon na happen now ?
It 's really more about putting a player in the role of George Lucas , who you know .
And slowly , week after week , his legs were getting better .
We need people who want to do the right thing .
I 'm getting a meat sweat .
At the very least we should recognize that and we tend not to .
Consider sending somebody to Nashville Pick well .
Well , they 'd probably keep it a secret until they turned the prototype drug into an active pharmaceutical substance .
I got a female instructor first to teach me the female role the follow because I wanted to understand the sensitivities and abilities that the follow needed to develop so I wouldn not have a repeat of college .
Radiologists divide breast density into four categories based on the appearance of tissue in mammography .
Sometimes it shows you what you shouldn not do .
Can you tell us what you leaked and what happened .
And I went to the island of Bimini in the Bahamas to work with lemon shark pups .
They have 10,000 people who get 20 cents for their answer .
We need to reduce the revenue from the cultural bonuses upstairs .
One of the most beautiful things is that designers really work on life , even though they take technology into account .
One is the rise toward communities and neighborhoods and increased emphasis on your neighbors as your support system .
You could give them a long political speech they would still not understand .
And Tasneem Siddiqui , who developed a way called incremental construction , in which he transferred 40000 slum residents to safe and affordable urban housing .
So I wanted this little painting .
So technology is more than just things in your pocket .
So if I take into account climate change throughout 2006 , we 'll see what this universe looks like .
Your grandfather has a parking violation It is way overdue .
So we 've come up with some new things .
He crossed all boundaries whether he was black or white whether he was a man or a woman .
So 34 cents of a foreign transaction fee .
The curved line is very similar to the lexigram .
But what we have in common sets me apart from most people in my community , and I 'm between these two worlds , with enough heart to fight for justice in the other .
And but then I went to a meeting in Italy .
Mrs. Young Soon Han .
He was an actor . You saw him play .
There 's no lure for food and no teeth to eat when he gets there .
And anybody who is hit with this feels this sudden burst of heat and just wants to get out of the way .
It is actually basically three square rooms with a couple of skylights and stuff .
If I start the little game here that the kids have done it will crash the space ship .
In our eyes , the lens is transparent , but in this child the lens has become matt and therefore can not see the world .
That 's what Richard said in '93 .
What do you think honey .
I have to do something now that seems a little weird to the magician .
And of course , if you go down to a place where there 's 15 times more , the deeper you go down , the more the problem gets .
Neither of them attended university .
In Port Elizabeth the village outside Port Elizabeth in South Africa .
But all those balloon trips ended if you knew that every time something went wrong and on this special occasion a more experienced balloonist who was with me jumped up and left me being held for life .
You know that public policy will respond better to the needs of the poor , and that 's why I think it 's okay .
But there is always this illusion that if you buy this lamp you will live in a world without cords .
I have a job to do .
SS Well , why do n't you tell them how you got to Georgetown , why do n't we start there .
Almost without strength , I can control his position and speed .
We put a buzzer in the clinic .
Luckily still it seems to be out of harm is way of the recent oil spill .
Our big break came in 2004 .
OK so if we take that equation why haven not we heard from anybody out there .
And the building is very sculptural as you walk around it .
They told her she couldn not love her vagina in high school that it was not a legal thing that it was not a moral thing that it was not a good thing .
At the age of two , he was smuggled into prison to hide under her skirts because she could n't stand it without him .
And then you know what we do We negotiate .
But the one that is really been sort of stressing me out that I haven not been able to figure out is this phrase Cala a boca Galvao .
Reuters now includes African blogs in their relations with Africa .
So ordering art , I mean , I have to say , it 's a relatively new term .
How crazy is it that our measure of progress , our dominant measure of progress in society , measures everything but what makes life worth living .
Student 2 What did you get What did you get .
And the starting point is the for that discussion was the fact that we have all been subject to the advice of the parenting industrial complex .
Voices in my mind of friends who were killed .
Okay so you can see here the spot .
And at that point , I realized it was 47 years ago , but Mr. Alligator finally showed up .
We can end up with something like this , which means it 's way better than that .
I 'm just a designer , so I need them .
They went out and where Shriram lives they vaccinated two million people .
There was a long break on the line and he said there was just too much chicken in the world .
I do n't want to advertise them too much , that 's not the point .
Failing governance in many areas in the area of corruption and the area of destruction of the environment in the area of exploitation of women and children in the area of climate change in all the areas in which we really need a capacity to reintroduce the primacy of politics into the economy which is operating in a worldwide arena .
This is King Cnut , a thousand years ago .
I can show you a very good example here .
We have gone further we have formed a relationship with the University of Technology Jamaica where I now have an appointment .
A radio device is controlling every step I take and a sensor picks up my foot for me every time I walk .
So you have these three mysteries .
In other words use that fixation in order to motivate that kid that is one of the things we need to do .
Education the synthesis of wisdom and knowledge is the means to strive for a more perfect more aware more noble and more just society .
And then it goes back .
When you make an investment , you really say that I agree that any one of these 100 things can happen to me and affect my wealth .
So with only eight billion dollars , we can achieve the Millennium goal of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water .
This is a whole orchestra composed of about 100 instruments , each of which can play with natural skills .
Alvaro Siza grew up and lived in Portugal and is probably considered the main Portuguese architect .
And then when you get to a station it is expanded so that you can actually read it .
I was forced to get a paper route at 10 years old .
And last I am going to show you the example the story of Dusty the cat .
And I am going to start with this one If momma ain not happy ain not nobody happy .
But that it will get copied if it can regardless of the consequences .
I spent a week at sea on a research ship .
As a result , as a gang leader , you were aware of power , it was a pretty good life , but you finally lived at home with your mother .
The point is that no doctor would ever recommend replacement of the hip joint Piroxicam ibuprofen .
But we shouldn not kid ourselves and think that we are going to reach a consensus about these things .
I just put it in my computer , I unload the photos , I put it back in my camera , I never have to lose anything .
And then I started thinking well of course we can not just get rid of CAPTCHAs because the security of the Web sort of depends on them .
And what we are trying to do in a TEDesque way is to organize all biological information by design and engineering function .
So what you want to focus on instead is allowing your lower body to draft behind your upper body much like a small car behind a big car on the highway .
The point is , we do n't have anything single .
If I 'd always been violent with you , given you false information , grieved you or infected you with deadly germs , you 'd have broken ties with me and the network would have fallen apart .
So what big history can do is show us the nature of our complexity and fragility and the dangers that face us but it can also show us our power with collective learning .
It is the clothing the skin without the presence of the character .
So this is our icon of non-violence in our world , one of our living icons .
You have to act it out .
I want to stop it for a second because the movie is very badly made .
But with the limited time we have available I would like to show you the cognitive suite which is the ability for you to basically move virtual objects with your mind .
Dr. Kang is gon na go out on stage right now and we 're really gon na show you one of those kidneys that we printed a little earlier today .
We grew up without a television .
We 're going to the third stage where we only give them a coin .
And the X ray shows how beautiful nature can be .
So we got out and walked and sure enough about half a mile we came over the crest of this hill and there was a huge gathering of Bedouin with their camels .
And number three We need to respect the creator the creator of these remixes through rights that are directly tied to them .
The way we test Dylan is to give him input data , as I said , of the same kind that a child or child will receive in Project Prakash .
Well , there 's a lot of answers , but one of them certainly is that we see a lot of winners . Okay . When this couple wins the lottery or Ed McMahon shows up at your door with that giant , see how the hell you make money for things I do n't know .
And in South Africa they associate happiness with seriti or community respect .
Google Map Wizard is a technology that allows each of us to map what we know locally .
Mom said being a family is about caring , sharing and caring for each other .
As you can see , a small loop is also levitated magnetically .
Now all of you in this room in one form or other are probably customers of one or both of those organizations that merged .
It consisted of huge clouds of hydrogen and helium atoms and they have no structure .
We also associate being stressless and on vacation .
They are unique answers to a fundamental question what does it mean to be human and alive .
It 's not as important as health .
And buddy that made us mad .
But this slowness , which warned against the fact that President Clinton initially said that the U.S. troops would only be deployed for a year , turned out to be a strong force and helped us fix our priorities .
I 'm a contamination to all those kids of investment bankers ' jerks .
And so I decided I ’ d better do this for another day and another day and another day until finally I promised myself for a year I would keep quiet because I started learning more and more and I needed to learn more .
So we started asking ourselves what kind of less obvious indicators we could use to actually assess the sense of our employees or the emotional connection with our customers .
I just took a few photos of the kids and the next day I came with the posters and we pasted them .
And what consists of creating toys and tools that we use every day .
So I 'm going to talk to you about how to process this and I 'm going to give you some examples from Iran and you 're going to wonder why we should listen to this guy .
But instead of settling down I went to Arizona .
And say , `` Yes , you know , the whole conversation was a mile wide and deep an inch , but it really works on me .
And if I can fix my camera , great , you 'll see when I get close .
No , I 'm serious .
Dr. King believed that in this world there are two kinds of laws that have been established by higher authority and those that have been established by man .
I had this company that I would spent 15 years building It is called Future it was a magazine publishing company .
And worse than that far worse than that my sense of self worth was kind of evaporating .
We all use Wikipedia .
You have these pictures of birds .
Psychologist Barry Schwartz aims at the central principle of freedom of choice for Western societies In Schwartz it is an estimate that has not made us more free , but more paralyzed , not happier , but more dissatisfied .
If we resize the countries of the globe in proportion to the subject of interest we see that Sub Saharan Africa is the worst hit region by HIV/AIDS .
However , it is believed that the oldest living redwoods are probably 2500 years old , about the age of Parthenon , although it is also suspected that there may be individual trees that are older .
And just literally send in small nuclear factories that absorb iron oxide on the surface of Mars and spit out oxygen .
Afghanistan we know how serious a security issue Afghanistan is for so many of us in the world .
We are based down in Florida .
How many have got opportunity like me to go to US do a master is .
So when you start jumping with a parachute or smoking , you minimize the risk .
We see how this system allows it to approach any surface and start using hands to interact with the information displayed before it .
Now look at this plastic chair .
If we combine the first two bodies and metabolisms , we can create a system that maybe could move and replicate , and if we combine them with hereditary information now , we can create a system that would be more realistic and possibly evolve .
So one difficulty is how do you coordinate lots of these robots .
So David is top five presentation tips .
Look at this now .
Would you go to government , lobby and use the system ?
And the third part is that , after all , we all agreed on the really extraordinary abilities that children have in innovation . I mean , Sirena was a miracle last night , not only saw what she could do .
How do you know that 's what you did ?
So what can we do .
They thought you just wear out there is nothing you can do about it kind of like an old shoe .
But that is I think what this is all about is that these individuals have these personalities and characters .
Believe me , there 's a lot easier ways to make money .
Lydia 's a 66-year-old Swiss farmer .
I can see the rocks are over here .
Gradually it would shift from a politics of plunder to a politics of hope Thank you .
Now this would have been a wonderful paper .
It comes off the ocean here and is drawn up towards India .
In order to profit from its oil it has to export it through Turkey or Syria and other countries and Iraq itself .
Dysmorphophobia is an extreme version of the fact that we don not see ourselves as others see us .
And again we have no way of knowing but it is clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged .
Thank you for feeding me and raising me and for making my life today .
I 've talked to over 200 women , older women , younger women , married women , lesbians , single women .
And that was one of my major discoveries to find that these islands were the same as the whole big thing more or less .
Would you spend the remaining $ 20 on a ticket ?
The big challenge in front of us .
He said when the lights went out and Shakespeare 's art was playing for a few precious hours , he could have imagined himself at Prince Hal , it was time .
And it 's an economic boost and a woman 's ability to say that I make the same or greater contribution to this family than you do .
And I 'm not talking about the whole comedy here , because clearly there 's a lot of humor that safely colors what we already think and feel .
Now I want to warn you , as the lawyers say , that the LOLcats are the dumbest possible creative act .
We landed with 40 kilos .
DR Ma he is walking .
The cracks are too small to get your toes into so the only way to climb is using your fingertips in the cracks and using opposing pressure and forcing yourself up .
CA 1824 .
So to conclude I would just like to point out you know the whales live in an amazing acoustic environment .
So what can we do .
We refrain from doing things .
We ca n't deal with other people even in our own families .
If the wind blows them over they are like beetles stuck there on the ground .
It shows the strength of encouragement .
And this building which is just naturally hermetic we stripped .
And here is what happens if you get a pair of people who share all their DNA namely clones or identical twins .
I just wanted to be in the center .
The number across the US and Western Europe is eight percent .
They had a 12 page supplement in the Wall Street Journal the day it launched .
And these will be some simple design qualities and they will also be some qualities of if you will the intelligence of interaction .
Curitiba Rio it is like two birds kissing themselves .
And made a needle look like the Hulk is broken it .
David Hanson 's robots that show emotions .
But today women are rebuilding Rwanda .
So my process is very straightforward .
But what is crucial here is why these groups were able to connect , because their work results are a type that can easily be shared digitally , with a picture or with music file software .
Now all that that Apollonian Platonic model is what the building industry is predicated on and there are a number of things that exacerbate that .
Quick moment for the designers in the audience .
So Europe is not just an example to follow , but it is an enemy to fight and resist .
And roughly translated means why you wake up in the morning .
They go to bed around 8 00 pm until midnight and then again they sleep from about 2 00 am until sunrise .
It 's not gon na happen tomorrow , it 's gon na take some time .
We are on the verge of the greatest exploration that the human race has ever known .
We can play an extremely constructive role .
But what I love and am a journalist , and what I love is finding hidden patterns , and I love being a data detective .
Your job is to excavate things like this in the foreground and make them enter the pages of history .
Ireland is one of the fastest growing economies in the European Union today .
I have a trigger here trigger here here here Right there .
This one actually didn not go anywhere but I got my feet wet doing this .
So Honey Bee Network is based on resources that poor people are rich in .
The guard told me they come every day to see if the center would open .
We do n't have the resources .
I remember that as a kid , I thought that I wanted to understand everything most in my life and then pass it on to everyone else .
Every country has a contextual alcoholic drink In France it is Pernod .
Well statistically the majority of those who join extremist organizations are highly educated .
We 're gon na start with a little piece here , and I 'm gon na take a little piece here , and I think I 'd better try it before you eat it for lunch .
And they blow up two of them and have two great voices for them 8 out of 10 significant things , and we say which one of them you want to give up .
Here is an American citizen and his son having an artificial foot .
Unfortunately , he 's anonymous .
That was the message That was the experiment .
So if it 's not us , it 's who .
If you look at the Triceratops you can see it is changing it is shape shifting .
Or at least that is what you say when you identify yourself .
So nature has this self similar structure .
And this is less futuristic than it may sound .
Voice Kismet do you like the toy Oh .
That is from 1985 to 2003 .
Then why not so many people .
This is the instructor that Alicia and I chose for the male lead .
See this gap There is a gap and it affects all other stories .
But take a look at the face and the body language of everybody in this fuzzy picture and you can get a sense that they are all at play .
Darwin had this amazing idea .
We hope that the Embrace infant heater and other simple innovations such as this represent a new trend in the future of simple , local , affordable solutions that can have a huge social impact .
And they 're the best business leaders according to research .
And in a traditional model if you did a snapshot assessment you say These are the gifted kids these are the slow kids .
And when Kibaki got into power through a coalition of forces that were trying to clean up corruption in Kenya they commissioned this report spent about two million pounds on this and an associated report .
He believed in my sketch artist skills , even though he had no direct evidence that I was good at anything , everything he saw was just a blur .
We fast track We figure out the game .
The first time it was section C .
If I put them together , the light will turn off .
You will have a new understanding and trust in your body .
I believe that Mars is the most likely purpose of life outside the Earth .
However what I have to do as a musician is do everything that is not on the music .
And I want to talk to the ones of those that have been doing it for more than two years .
As you all know , every cancer patient has to undergo a check-up .
And that means that the entrance and exit are in the same space , allowing for such things .
In the world there is a huge community of people who are practical biologists who are dog breeders , pigeon breeders , orchid breeders , rose breeders , people who are engaged in biology with their own hands and who are committed to producing beautiful things beautiful plant creatures pet animals biotechnologies and it will be a huge positive step towards accepting biotechnology .
I think it 's most important to work with small groups of women who give them the opportunity to get microcredit .
And maybe somebody is never said that to you but you have done a really really good job .
But he was just a dad to us , and our family life was pretty normal .
That is the police getting rid of it all .
Now I know there is been a whole lot of hype about our power to control biology .
That it was a place where people could think and remember a quiet place .
So I decided to pull myself together and solve this problem .
I still believed my self was all I was .
Well we make lots and lots of pumps .
I am a qualitative researcher .
Here the map of Buckminster Fuller is Dymaxion is edited .
For example , let us first allow the Centipede virus .
So Vander should be playing soccer .
Lifespring Hospital is a joint venture between Acumen and the Indian Government to provide high-quality , affordable medical care for low-income mothers . It has been so successful that it is currently building a new hospital every 35 days .
Obviously that is heavy for Amanda .
Now on the other hand anything that promotes intimacy is healing .
Let me show you some statistics .
But you know thousands of other leatherbacks each year are not so fortunate and the species ' future is in great danger .
And when you wink your eyes , you change it from fine grain to coarse .
Mothers infected with HIV taking care of mothers infected with HIV .
This is interesting because it gives us the opportunity to prove whether these exotic objects really exist .
He 's the father of all of us .
There 's a huge amount of information about genetics , just comparing genetic similarities .
Guests Move the moving wall have some fold down guest beds .
We are coming around a cliff here on the right .
He said We southerners do like a smooth surface so that there were times when he just didn not want the confrontation .
And that has been the second great couple 100000 years 150000 years flow of our evolution .
That means for every dollar you deposit it loans out about nine or 10 .
What about all the kids like me that were in school kids like some of you out there that were in school and didn not get a chance and will never get a chance to participate in science and technology .
And we are doing this job since 2000 and it is a very heavy project .
I worked in other parts of New Zealand as well in beautiful fragile protected areas like in Fiordland where this sea pen colony was found .
But there are people women creating jobs .
One example is one laptop per child .
Yeah , interesting , but a little dangerous .
This will not happen again .
Polar bears on the Artic Ocean move in dead straight lines .
If you sit a guy on a chair with all this kind of apparatus measuring your physiology and there is kind of a bomb that goes off it is so instinctive response that in 20 years they never saw anyone who will not jump .
It was extraordinary .
We 're not trying to understand the problem .
YB So wind power solar power we had a lot to talk about .
Did anyone think when I was playing Why is he using so many impulses ?
And if you combine them into different combinations , like printing in the sense that the color of the magazine is printed , and you put them under certain forces that orbit them or move them back and forth or draw them with them , these amazing things started to appear .
You can burrow down by a particular type of spending or you can go through all the different regions and compare them .
I didn not know eBay from that jar of water sitting on that piano but I had the presence of mind to go back and talk to one of the techie kids at my center .
They go around looking for what it is .
This is what well-thinking designers and all customers want .
And there were times when I was actually so desperate I would just you know walk into a room and just go like Eric .
So they take the first one that often appears .
There is detailed information on how to assemble nuclear weapons from parts .
No one 's seen it in public before .
Well first of all what is going to happen next .
And that is important for many fronts and one of them is because of that culture that is in agriculture .
Well I say yes and if there is I give the prize to Darwin .
The problem is , it 's a really ugly pie .
So think about it as a paper thin huge area of many hundreds of thousands of miles which is rotating .
Now monsoon the root of the word monsoon comes from the word season .
He 's so swollen , you ca n't even see his eyes .
The second problem that comes with headphone abuse is compression .
Long distance telephone service sold on price price price fast food restaurants with all their value pricing and even the Internet is commoditizing not just goods but services as well .
I love that power I do n't want her to leave .
Well consciousness .
All right , it 's withdrawn and see if you can hear the hidden messages that are supposed to be there .
What is this .
H stands for Higgs particle .
So let is say we have a lab finding that .
Insurance will cover the bypass it ’ ll cover the angioplasty it won ’ t until recently cover diet and lifestyle .
That is the question .
Nobody knows where they are .
It 's not about bad marriages , it 's not about hopeless jobs .
If you want more information , we have a website that describes this exciting and intriguing mission and why we want to do it .
This is an environmental network .
So I was positive that if somehow we can make things mimic life let is go one step further .
And in our world , if we continue to waste our energy resources if we continue to build things that consume so much energy that most companies will go bankrupt , it is clear that we will never give the planet back to the next generation without much trouble .
Each of us affects the world around us every day , and you scientists know that you ca n't really , even if you lie in bed all day , breathe oxygen and release CO2 , and probably going to the toilet , you 're making changes in the world .
My father watched benevolently of course the demonstrations of the month of May but his heart was elsewhere and so was his time because he had over 15 countries to serve .
So I met with a group of other people who were looking at this issue and we created the Plastic Pollution Coalition .
Oh , we 've got a lot of them , hundreds of them coming every year .
But on Pine Ridge I 'll always be called wasichu , and wasichu is the word Lakota , which means non-Indian , but another version of that word means the one who chooses the best meat for himself .
So every year on the same day and it is a mystery exactly how that happens each colony sends out its virgin unmated queens with wings and the males and they all fly to a common place And they mate .
Not much has changed since then .
How it helps us to understand some of the problems that affect us these days .
To illustrate this question , I will allow myself to apply two countries .
In the measure that you have the code and the measure that you read it and by the way the first plant was read two years ago the first human was read two years ago the first insect was read two years ago .
Tell us Charlie why would you say he should be able to use a golf cart .
And why will that happen ? Since we intend to set congestion prices , we will pay road tolls , gas taxes will become road prices .
And the total monthly cost for our bandwidth is about 5000 dollars .
I said No use the method of the grandmother .
Well guess what That is changing .
I would like to kick off by looking at education .
In the early 1980s , I had a really amazing task when my Harvard professor asked me if I would be interested in going down to Haiti and infiltrating secret associations based on Duvalier , power and Tonton Macoutes and securing the poison that was made of . zombies .
The corporates the artists the wildlife nuts the good old everyday folks can actually bring these rivers back .
You have data , and neurobiology data is sensory data .
What they 're doing is putting noise into the brain so the neurons ca n't understand each other .
And that begins to lift a heavy burden off the world is poor .
The second guy we will call him Bill is transfixed by embarrassment at staring at the thing there in the center .
I 'll never use it , I 'll try to do it , but I 'll never use that word again .
I was a wimp .
One of the most terrifying things about a tsunami I have n't seen is a complete lack of information .
BL The white material is a type of bacteria that thrives at 180 degrees C .
Using computers , even though they are getting faster and better , is a challenge to deal with data gigabytes , data terabytes and extract relevant information .
Now what I would like to do is just to show you what one second of this activity would look like .
It is just how do we make that recurrent and scale it .
These are people who just visited an online bookie in Uganda .
All knowledge of the English language and the English alphabet has been lost .
But if either of you have studied electrical engineering , we can also short-circuit it .
Man , I 'm gon na tell you who 's gon na figure out how to make money out of this frustration , oh , how it happened .
It was blessed .
Those of you from northern India will be familiar with this .
The first attempt didn not go so well .
The average actually the record is in Singapore .
So this is called Victoria Crater which is about a few football fields in size .
All of these things are coming together and it is a particularly important thing to understand as we worry about the flames of the present to keep an eye on the future .
But it 's not about becoming Bono or Tracy Chapman .
It is learning something , learning an idea from the body , and then applying it .
We don not work in terms of libraries and catalog systems and so forth .
And for molecular programming the question is how does your cell phone know when to stop growing .
But Julie , you were so ready to start school , honey .
The helicopter in front of the calf 's face decreased rapidly .
We travel hundreds of miles and fly about 450 miles an hour .
Because in ALL leukemia that set of genes over there over expresses .
It was sensitive we had to go up the chain of command convince them that this was the right thing to do and do all of this on electronic medium .
Just absolutely delights the little ones .
And I wanted to close this program with a story of hope a story I did on marine reserves as sort of a solution to the problem of overfishing the global fish crisis story .
So I think this really tells us why we need to get our priorities straight .
The last type of data I 'm going to talk about maybe it 's the most exciting .
So for a long time in the economic sphere we have lived with the term glass ceiling .
Thank you very much .
And they caught a couple of my guys who had hidden cameras in duffel bags .
In terms of chicken , I 'm like Eeyore of economic growth .
If I have a little more time , I 'll tell you about the case of the crow 's infidelity , which illustrates it nicely .
He is a very good colleague of Einstein is we must say .
What do they have every right to ask us ?
He wanted to know what was fair .
In conclusion , I think the universe may have an evolved brain to see itself , which may be the first step towards realizing itself .
Now it may seem like there is less hope today than there was before .
So far there are about 8 million lines of Mathematica code in Wolfram Alpha built by experts from many many different fields .
So Brazilians went to that first match against North Korea put up this banner started a Twitter campaign and tried to convince the rest of us to tweet the phrase Cala a boca Galvao .
I put my food waste into this dehydrating desiccating macerator turns food into an inner material which I can store and then compost later .
I didn not even recognize half the names in most of the food that I was eating .
There is no ice over it .
So we have some kind of primordial soup .
My Uncle Ed gave me a beautiful blue sweater , at least that 's what I thought .
It 's called an atheist .
I spent my life defending the net , and I feel like if we do n't fight online crime , we risk losing everything .
So the question is Will we respond to this or not .
Which means the microbiological hitchhikers are coming with you .
And I am going to show you up to maybe 2007 .
And they 're just as great on this screen as they were live .
And now string theory comes along and says yes gravity quantum mechanics electromagnetism all together in one package but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see .
Step out of the moral matrix just try to see it as a struggle playing out in which everybody does think they are right and everybody at least has some reasons even if you disagree with them everybody has some reasons for what they are doing .
Imagine that he 's learning history differently .
It is also something that is in each of us to close what I consider to be the two great misfortunes of today 's world .
So I went down to the lobby and I saw this Indian guy .
And then the second one is if they feel like it and they are not going to do it in every case but in many they are they want to actually be able to sell that creation as a way of providing for their own livelihood .
You slam them together and if we are right some of the energy of that collision will go into debris that flies off into these extra dimensions .
Our experience points to an amazing increase in human productivity by over 20 percent by using these plants .
As you get older , the pawns get shallow , and the degrees are wider and you start moving slower , because you 're making less discoveries .
Incidentally , this is the only Spanish technological innovation of the 20th century .
We took about 20 or 30 architects , designers and artists , and for four days it was like in this city barn to renovate it and everyone wanted to help .
This tackles yet another assumption that the giver and the organization is at the center as opposed to putting the problem at the center .
You do n't want to drive drunk , you do n't want to dive drunk , so this is a really big problem .
So now you can say all right why isn not DNA origami the end of the story .
But we 're more than we 're making up for .
Perhaps you have a computer scientist who is a genius .
Hunts Point was once a community going to work , but now the residents had neither a job nor a home to go to .
And they could never find that ant again on the next climbing , so no specimens were ever collected .
This is the picture of a galaxy a common our garden galaxy with what 100 billion stars like our Sun in it .
And freedom from persecution from the Khmer Rouge .
And again you can think of this as almost mapping our interstate highways if you will .
That means I had to actually learn every aspect of making pottery by hand .
Bird flu I stand here as a representative of all terrible things this might be the worst .
OK we have discovered the particles but unless you understand the underlying reason for that pattern you know why it is built the way it is really you have done stamp collecting You haven not done science .
I was like a glazed doughnut for most of the year .
I worked in schools where I found local , sustainable funds to move every school in the area from garbage to fresh food for six and a half thousand to school .
But , unfortunately , Molas , even though they do n't go to school , they 're still hitting the net like by-catch .
I do n't know .
The most cycles are India and China .
Literally 10 percent of the neighborhood died in seven days , and much more would have died if people had not escaped after the outbreak of the original epidemic .
This issue is how will we react .
I wanted to let go of the fantasy .
Different materials , different styles , different times , drawings from sketches showing details of Rome .
Did you touch it .
Pat Mitchell , you brought us some photos from the Times .
What lies ahead .
Why Why are they in the Mid East .
02 meters from here back to here 20 centimeters .
Tens of millions of them are thinking all the time they have code attached to them .
So we decided to cast a series of little people that would play the different bodies of Benjamin at the different increments of his life and that we would in fact create a computer generated version of Brad is head aged to appear as Benjamin and attach that to the body of the real actor .
So even though I have a fear of heights I recently strapped myself to another human being and stepped out of an airplane at 12000 ft .
And then if that person interrupts then those two heads may turn .
But what is really interesting , unlike our ceramics , which is in the kilns , it happens in the sea water . It happens near and near the body .
And as I took on my career as a designer I began to ask myself the simple question Do we actually think beauty or do we feel it .
Narrator In front of the sub a mess screen will come into contact with the soft bodied creatures of the deep sea .
The kids have laptops plugged in .
It meant she was n't holding her urine , she could n't control her feces .
When we saw that we asked if the impairment of visual integration could be a manifestation of something behind the imperfections of dynamic processing of information in autism .
I am at Carnegie Mellon we have got a great Robotics Institute there .
What was really mild spring changed in an unfortunate hot summer .
And it is really different within each country .
So the place we took him to was a place called the Solankov basin , which is located in the northern part of the Gulf of Mexico .
And you know what .
And yet there is still one on a dark surround and one on a light surround .
We published it before we knew it , because we thought it was so beautiful that it had to be right .
You can teach them in the lab a little bit of exchange and indeed there is reciprocity in other animals , but replacing one object with another never happens .
The problem is that the spaceship has the largest diameter - nine feet . ARES has 21 feet of wingspan and 17 feet of length .
All these robotic missions are part of a larger human journey , a journey to understand something that will allow us to understand our cosmic place , to understand our origins and how the Earth , our planet and we live on it .
For example Dubai cool place .
I see a white building It is snowing a soft snow .
The printing press caused 200 years of chaos moving from a world in which the Catholic Church was such a kind of organization of political force , to the Westphalia Treaty , when we finally learned what a national state is .
This was burned out during the riots this is next to my building and so I had another cardboard box built and I walked back out in the streets again .
The third thing on my checklist is relations with neighbouring friendly societies that can support society.If this friendly support is withdrawn , which may increase the likelihood of a collapse of society In the case of Greenland Norse , they traded with Norway 's home country and this trade decreased partly due to Norway 's weakening , partly due to sea ice between Greenland and Norway .
I could talk to you and say Laytay chai Paisey Paisey .
And you all know the answer Does someone want to shout it out .
Well , one of the reasons is that Judge Russell has now seen 108 vets in his courthouse for veterans since February this year and on 108 guess how many have returned through the rotating door of justice to prison .
They throw it on the surface where it floats and then it 's picked up by an autonomous plane and within 24 hours of the eruption it 's being transported back to the lab .
And I learned that one person can make a huge difference .
And now we know that in our recent past it melted back and formed again and sea level went up and down six meters at a time .
You 'll find them in all places in society .
So that is one of the stories of oil there is just a lot of it .
Now it turns out it 's Bill Gates ' doodle .
So I just really encourage you whatever your stake is in education whether you are a student parent teacher policy maker whatever insist on better math curriculum .
Looks absolutely ridiculous .
T I want to speak perfect English .
Stories take place in a certain area . They have context .
So one of the things we 've discovered is where are the hot spots of diversity .
For example how we started Ratan just began with a five engineer team young people in their mid twenties .
Pretty consciously design projects that require an incredible amount of different techniques to actually fight a simple adaptation .
And one of the questions from which I learned a lot was this one Which country has the highest child mortality of these five pairs .
Among biological scientists the figures are even lower 55 percent only believe in God Physical scientists it is 75 percent .
Now marketing has done a very very good job of creating opportunities for impulse buying .
And yet Ole for you .
So we 're able to see again the self-organization of these oil droplets that we 've seen before , and the black spots inside them represent this kind of black tar , this diverse , very complex organic black tar .
So one thing we can do is live longer .
This is an old lady who believes in me so much that I have to do everything I can for her .
We do n't inherit identity , but we can figure it out .
So the most amazing thing about this and I 'm going to end up on this note is that the most emerging systems , most self-organizing systems , are not made up of components that are able to look at the general pattern and change their behavior depending on whether they like the pattern or not .
So we have to study all kinds of different materials the shape that we want to do .
That 's when it falls off .
Well , despite the grim pictures from the Middle East in Darfur , Iraq , somewhere else there is a long-term trend that presents good news .
And then , at the end of the 1950s , following the Brown case against the Board of Education , when the Clan was reborn all over the South , Mr. Teszler said that I had heard this conversation .
And I noticed he 's clowning around .
Yeah , we need time .
And it is US government at its best without advocacy providing facts that it is useful for the society .
But what happened for me is that that shattering actually emboldened me in a way I have never been emboldened .
And the musicians they were comfortable in the end .
And now 4000 churches have joined the environmental movement .
Well , this map in more red-yellow colors is the places with the highest density of slavery .
I hope you will each take a moment to think about how you could use something like this to give yourself more access to your own world and to make your own travel more convenient and more fun .
And he got me challenged to figure out an optical illusion room .
And after two months of sitting there one day thinking that it was all over this incredible big white male came down right beside me three feet away from me and he went down and grabbed a fish and went off in the forest and ate it .
Plato 's true .
In fact , all our processed foods contain more proteins than we could possibly be aware of .
This was the one chance that I had to focus on what I really was after and what was important And to my surprise I realized the importance of environmental issues which Charles Lindbergh devoted the last third of his life to and preparing that paper did me a lot of good .
Fair enough .
If we could just reverse this fund-sharing , maybe we could have more lasting peace in this world .
So we have this ability as well .
And I think we have taught men to be secure when they are insecure to pretend they know things when they don not know things or why would we be where we are .
The doctors and nurses there noticed that not only did she survive , but she was really smart and they made her a nurse .
So this is CLIMBeR .
And sometimes you are equipped with skills but they may not be the kind of skills that enable creativity .
One of the things I 've learned is that as time goes on , especially men who have n't been communicative before become more communicative .
We decided to do something a little bit different and transform flavors that were very familiar so in this case we have carrot cake .
Differencing is another technique we use .
But there 's no evidence of gender division .
And then we started planting only 1000 trees a day .
I want to be clear about what I 'm saying because I deeply believe that our offices should encourage the free , talkative , cafe interactions you know , the ones where people meet and suddenly exchange ideas .
Thank you .
You can see that this is a very early step towards borders and differential accounts and what happens when you take things to extremes and very small pages and a very large number of pages .
I highly recommend that you get a chance to see crude oil burn someday because you will never need to hear another poli sci lecture on the geopolitics of oil again .
And furthermore there is some signs that really prefer the end of texts such as this jar shaped sign and this sign in fact happens to be the most frequently occurring sign in the script .
So that is where Kiva is today just to bring you right up to the present .
So religions are cultures of repetition .
And that brain is learning at warp speed .
And Sergey mentioned Orkut which is something that you know Orkut wanted to do in his time and we call this at Google we have embodied this as the 20 percent time and the idea is for 20 percent of your time if you are working at Google you can do what you think is the best thing to do .
I do n't like the question .
And what was so funny about it was that the skull fragments were getting closer and closer to the roots of the tree and quite recently the tree grew , but it turned out that the skull caught nice water on the slope of the hill , so it decided to plant roots in and around it , keeping it in place and preventing it from going off the slope .
The other thing you learn sometimes when you travel to these countries in the Middle East sometimes in Latin American countries South American countries a lot of times when they build stuff there is no rules and regulations .
Among them I found one part that actually resembled the outline of the United States of America , which you can see here .
That 's why little girls do n't learn math .
In their beautiful form and function we can see their continuous activity .
He started it without money .
They hatched out in India .
So here we go .
You have read about it already .
It is a set of skills and principles of the knowledge method that we threw into the trash after World War II and we decided that we did n't need it anymore , we would n't use it .
In order to convert this opaque 90000 hours of video into something that we could start to see we use motion analysis to pull out as we move through space and through time what we call space time worms .
That 's part of the reason we 're here , part of the reason we 're successful .
This is called the hyoid bone It is a bone which is right here .
Here is Hedy Lamarr again .
I would like to show you what happens with the data what we can show with this data .
It is a form if you like of ecological altruism perhaps something along those lines Maybe it is that .
Well , what 's the story of this disease .
Oh , great , yeah , yeah , now you can all stop calling .
Anyone in the world can play or copy musical ideas and use them in an innovative way .
I understand I said that the Japanese do not put sugar in their green tea but I would like to put some sugar in my green tea .
For every 100 girls in special education there are 217 boys .
As it turns out , there is a pattern .
They really believe in their own superiority and they are disrespectful of those who are not .
And we called that landmass Pangea .
That is pretty much what you should have on your piece of paper Right .
We must be responsible for setting and enforcing the borders we want in our lives .
The more pipelines we have the more silk roads we will have and the less of a dominant Great Game competition we will have in the 21st century .
And that became the headline of a Fortune article .
And some of them were available So we hired one .
So the data on dropping out is amazing .
So you can recognize this kind of movement the same movement that worms snakes and every animal that are moving on the ground without legs is able to display .
And then she was upset .
Somewhere in America .
It feels like I ca n't hide my love , I ca n't hide , I ca n't hide .
The issue of trigger drawers and Special Operations Command .
In Philadelphia we have a one-to-one laptop program , so kids bring laptops every day , taking them home to get access to information .
So I got pretty upset , and you know I did n't know Chris was on stage , and that 's more annoying .
Leah adds with Kavita 's smile that we are particularly proud of our Christmas music because it shows that we are open to religious practices , even though the Catholic Church hates us LGBT .
If you remember the Cold War it was a very hard game but a stable one played only by two players which allowed for some coordination between the two superpowers .
So I do n't know , just stick with me .
You know the story .
We have a lot in common , but we do n't have a lot in common .
We have built our education systems on the model of fast food .
We were talking about the TV show we were watching that night .
So if I gave you this picture , I do n't want to dwell on it for too long .
So the concept here , so if you have a dead or damaged organ , we take a very small piece of this tissue , smaller than half the postage stamp .
The killer app that got the world ready for appliances was the light bulb .
This one person offered me three cents and I got him up to three and a half .
But maybe they have another ability , something else that would seem equally irrational to us , but they actually use some great possible value there .
Can you guess what this data set is ?
And I just got transferred .
It lasted all the way to and throughout the Renaissance .
If you look at the hexagon for instance it is like an amoeba which is constantly changing its own profile .
Think of the cell as equipment Think of the genes as software and as you start thinking of life as a code that is interchangeable , which can become energy that can become a food that can become a fiber that can become a human being that can become a whole series of things , then you need to change your approach to how you plan to organize , how you manage and how you think about energy in a completely different way .
Hidden faith in you , and then you answer to her .
By the time he wrote his third report he confessed that he had failed and instead had created a society of welfare consumers .
You exaggerate your fears and fear humiliation .
The answer is yes , maybe .
I thought it was exactly like in the movies , but the movies did n't pass them in a powerful painting that I saw , full of bright red , oranges and gray and a full circle of explosions .
In order to try to answer some of these questions we again turn to technology to biological technology in this case again telemetry putting radios on 10 gharial and actually following their movements They are being watched everyday as we speak to try to find out what this mysterious toxin is .
And he comes to the town He is a broken person .
In a sense , Bernoulli said that if we were able to estimate and multiply these two things , we would always know exactly how we should behave .
He started a press He started photoengraving .
These are Times Square , the two streams that joined together to create a swamp in Times Square , just as it was at the end of the American Revolution .
Incidentally , I never understood the conflict between abstraction and naturalism .
Yossi Vardi fights local warming .
These are also those tar-powered protocells that are also able to locate resources in their environment .
If there is a cone of light coming into my eye what do I see .
I know exactly that you 're hitting the skin .
Science tends to look at the world in a rational way , at quantitative things that can be measured and described , but gives art a wonderful context of understanding .
What he would effectively done is he would re branded the potato .
Audience Must .
And this is an acupuncture note or IM Pei is Some small ones can make the city better .
That thin belt you see here is Africa .
And he makes this complicated thing .
I remember my teacher When I first started my very first lesson I was all prepared with sticks ready to go .
They wanted band integration that is the machine acting upon the band members specifically not the other way around .
DB is basically DB is the name of the product essentially white noise diffuser .
People become so engaged that they have volunteers just like political volunteers anyway who fan out over the countryside campaigning for their candidate .
They literally crossed the path to our door .
And then , one by one , in reverse chronological order , they pronounce themselves on a scrolling list of feelings .
We are grateful but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform .
Notice we do n't have everyone with a picture .
Do n't use big words .
We already have some productivity indicators in this area OK , if you put a pair in the coal or oil fields that have been operating for decades , you can get a really significant increase , like an eight-fold increase in production This is just the beginning of this thing .
The way it works in the system is that no one ever looks at these signs .
And here I am with a pregnant woman who carries HIV and we both smile because we 're very confident because we know that this young woman is being treated so that her life can be extended to take care of the baby she 's about to give birth to .
This is a picture of an asteroid that passed us in 2009 .
Yet each pales to insignificance with the completion of that magnificent accomplishment of twenty first century technology the Digital Superhighway .
He wanted to carry education and he wanted to bring technology , and these are the pillars of his life , but also the pillars of the mission of one laptop per child .
Well , you know the other group is wrong .
In fact , about 15,000 people filled out forms saying they wanted to try .
What 's that ant doing ?
Go to the clock And what we have here is something many of you saw here three years ago .
You think that 's not true , of course , but that 's the impression of the media , and that 's what happens .
And just very quickly something we have been working on very recently is we were commissioned by the mayor of London to design a new bus that gave the passenger their freedom again .
We want to know how you go from water and protein to this liquid Kevlar to this natural Kevlar .
It 's like a rainbow .
So we got brand new ones shiny ones medium ones and very old dark ones .
Ezra , I do n't remember .
And the other dimension is are they what they say they are to others .
Achilles was a man who could shape history , a man of destiny , and that 's what you should be , Alexander .
Parallel universes .
I do n't get that kind of feedback in real life .
When someone 's more inclined to remember , we can give him a nudge in the window .
Save More Tomorrow makes it easy .
It 's only because we had a conference on the Isle of Man .
I think the whole past is actually just the beginning of the beginning .
I thought my Hungarian mentor band was over , but almost immediately I met Francis Robicsek , a Hungarian doctor , or actually a cardiosurgeon in Charlotte , North Carolina , then in the late 1970s , who pioneered open-heart surgery and tampered with his garage behind his home invented many devices that are standard parts of these procedures .
That was another thing that really touched me .
Now I have a plan for this and it requires more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and better games .
That reminds him of the word baroque barrack bark poodle Suzanne R he is off to the races .
But it was hard when I was born with spina bifida , and my kidneys and bladder did n't work .
By any economic standard the demand for art of all forms is skyrocketing as you can tell from the price of opera tickets by the number of books sold by the number of books published the number of musical titles released the number of new albums and so on .
They 're looking for them , they find them during the flowering period .
There 's an axle weighing 30 40 kg that does n't serve any purpose .
One was large numbers of bored teenagers who just didn not like school couldn not see any relationship between what they learned in school and future jobs .
Nalini Nadkarnia about canopy maintenance .
And he says I have got something else but it may not be for you .
In the face of particularly difficult failures or complexities , there is a really interesting decoration .
So we see the galaxy because of the light of the stars .
But it was really to us very important as a strategy .
And also again it can also it is something that you it is not something that is radiating outside .
The Doha Tribeca Film Festival was held in our new cultural centre Katara .
They do change over time .
I mean , it 's not drilling oil .
We encountered runners at busy toll collection points on highways and without a person in the loop the car just drives alone .
And that kind of relationship between a designer and a scientist started when I was in school .
And what I was , you know how you 're gon na say anything .
She combined employment experience and training with life skills they needed like anger management and teamwork and also how to talk to future employers about how their experiences actually demonstrated the lessons that they had learned and their eagerness to learn more .
Two other people you know are very good at making wooden shafts , but arrowheads are hopeless .
So when I was growing up in a really rural area in Maine the Internet meant something very different to me .
Now the mathematically minded will see immediately that T in the numerator increases impact a bad thing but T in the denominator decreases impact .
But I quite love the way it is posed .
This is an icon of our robot Jason it is called .
Here we see the face of the young subject on the left .
Hairdos no copyright protection .
Obvious right .
There are many types of HTML codes that you can use to control the clocking and modulation of computer voices and experimented with them .
So there 's an ice wall at the depth of a few thousand feet , going down to the rock , if the glacier is embedded on a rocky ground , and it floats if it is n't .
Another thing that has become incredibly global is the production of meat and fish .
Because otherwise it can get quite claustrophobic .
What this suggests is that no one is an outside observer of nature Okay .
And yet many Darwinists are concerned , a little concerned , they would like to see some limitations on how far Darwinism is going .
Now he can manage all activities on his farm .
CA Just like you know how 10 second version 10 11 and 12 Because we just have your slides so great , and ideas are so big , I ca n't let you go down without seeing 10 11 and 12 .
We cut we dry and we packed them we mounted them on a folder .
I 'm going OK , you know .
And it turns out that they liked it and made them happy , not very happy , but a little happy .
So if I asked you Why don not you go and find me the prevalence in Burkina Faso in 1991 .
Now if you are using Twitter or other social networks and you didn not realize this was a space with a lot of Brazilians in it you are like most of us .
He talked about how the mandalas of ancient Hindu religion were kind of projected into the sky as an attempt to regain some sense of order after the chaos of war .
There 's no ocean , there 's no life support system .
I will dance and resist , dance and persevere and dance .
In addition to that we have measured the speed of sound .
And like I tell my family and my wife , she reminds me of every time you risk your life , you know , every time you go to this country .
Or you can get on a plane fly to Shanghai queue up outside Shanda is offices cost probably 600 700 dollars and reclaim your character get your history back .
On the other hand , in the lower left corner of the chart there are countries that do not get well , typically in sub-Saharan Africa .
And we saw over and over the way that spoken word poetry cracks open locks .
The demonstration of the Morton Ether Inhaler inhaler at Mass General in 1847 started a completely new era of surgery .
So what is the threat of nuclear terrorism ?
Just to give you an idea of scale that installation there is about six feet across and the tallest models are about two or three feet high .
And when someone is ready to buy a product in their customized project , Enter clicks , and these data are converted to data that a 3D printer reads and is sent to a 3D printer , perhaps on a stationary computer .
We have just opened the door and it is for all of you to step through it .
She once a week meets with her husband and says I would really like you to thank me for all these things I did in the house and with the kids .
And the metaphor is clear you go into the mountain as an individual but through exhaustion through sacrifice you emerge as a community that has once again reaffirmed its sense of place in the planet .
Now what if my roommate knew about my friend Fumi Onda a fearless woman who hosts a TV show in Lagos and is determined to tell the stories that we prefer to forget .
The traditional model it penalizes you for experimentation and failure but it does not expect mastery .
So English mania is a turning point .
The only thing you should focus on is the reduction of existential risk , because even the slightest decrease in existential risk would simply outweigh any other benefit you can hope to achieve .
1926 Kurt Lewin , the creator of social psychology , called this substitution .
It allowed us to actually eat all sorts of things .
So this is really considerable .
That means there is no waiting for chemical reactions to take place no need to use reagents that can run out and no need to be an expert to get actionable information .
We 're evolutionaryly made for vision .
Look around you .
One two three four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 ah 25 yes .
So these black boxes that we live with and take for granted are actually complex things created by other people and you can understand them .
Whereas the city of Toronto clearly doesn not want you involved with the planning process otherwise their ads would look something like this with all the information basically laid out clearly .
You need to read the details of the mammogram report .
I have lost all faith in the media a hapless joke I would much rather laugh at than become a part of .
Nevertheless , there is a clear distinction between food and poison .
The idea of the combined data is that we get many , many , many of those boxes that Hans had , and we get many , many , many things that grow up .
And the answer is that these variations are absolutely unbelievable .
So all of these galaxies are moving .
He said , Fish , I do n't know anything about fish .
Pretty soon a lengthy discussion ensued and finally the manager came over to me and said I am very sorry We do not have sugar .
No they were really big geeks and they didn not know much about art .
One gene is changed out of 20000 and look at it .
I think that future engineering species can be a source of food , hopefully , a source of energy to rehabilitate the environment and perhaps a replacement of the petrochemical industry .
So I wish you all the best of all the travels and the courage to speak quietly .
Because brains are expensive .
His body is in prison but his mind is free .
They dangle in the belly and delight even the photographers watching the show .
Dressed in this nylon bag made in China with the name burka .
But they did recover quite fast afterwards .
That is the reality of our modern life .
Read this wonderful article in New Yorker about how our echo boomers from 19 to 25 years in Iraq learned how to work as a system administrator for Sys over the Internet on chat rooms .
There are many gender differences if someone thinks that men and women are alike , they just never had a boy and a girl .
You are having to imagine it .
The way forward for us is now to standardize this technology .
Because I think we have an opportunity now .
And that 's good when I did it 10 years ago , 36 years after the Dalai Lama left .
As a result , you have two options .
And I have an information charity which has done huge scale amount of work in India .
One gram of gold is 30 euros .
I can never tell if it 's on .
Now that the kid on the right does n't get up , we know he 's had a concussion .
To do this , the brain does not feel the pain that can be caused , using all the effort put into the Internet and communication , and so on , on fiber optics connected to lasers that can be used to activate in animal models , for example in preclinical studies these neurons and see what they 're doing .
Unfortunately , even then it is not possible to summarize each TEDTalk individually .
The best image I know about this is from 650 years ago .
But it 's just that .
Susan Boyle .
Education is more possible in cities , and that changes the world .
In my mind there is something to learn from the history of Europe .
Driving them home and they want them to be enlightened so they take them to Ben & amp Jerry is ice cream company with its own foreign policy .
People must choose for themselves sometimes sticking to their guns regardless of what other people want or recommend .
Of course , by building fast prototypes , we can extract and test our ideas with consumers and users much faster than if we tried to describe them in words .
I am suggesting that with training you can imbue a musical sound with significance even in a cat .
Then we would take this template for regeneration and put it into the missing cartilage of the meniscus to grow back , which in the patient is the knee .
The one on the front is StriDER II .
PM And Tyler is here to show you the Walkalong .
You don not want to be too anthropomorphic but I swear that she looked at me like This useless predator is going to starve in my ocean .
They come with their own ideas and their own theories and unless you work with those then you won not be able to shift them right And I probably haven not shifted your ideas of how the world and universe operates either .
And to begin to answer such questions my research group since over 25 years now works on methods to extract DNA from remains of Neanderthals and extinct animals that are tens of thousands of years old .
We created this game in 2007 .
So consumers and I don not just mean people who buy stuff at the Safeway I mean people at the Defense Department who might buy something or people at you know the New Yorker who might print your article .
And by the time you get inside , you 've got hundreds of people who 've only added one photo .
I will play at these rock shows be on stage standing completely still and they are like What is she doing What is she doing .
But whenever we give things a name that belongs to something else , we also give them a whole network of analogys .
And this is a real crisis for them .
As a group they are the happiest people I know .
It was an absolute prerequisite for us to speak .
Try and build a political settlement first .
And most people , both in the organized church and outside of it , still have a picture of a heavenly controller , a rule-maker , a cop in the sky who commands and causes everything to happen .
I know that I am incredibly nervous and excited to be up here which is greatly inhibiting my ability to keep it cool .
A really important point for me is that I don not use any brand or corporate sponsors .
I used to work as the director of the World Bank office in Nairobi for East Africa .
He sits there in front of the haptic device , the power feedback system and moves the pen towards the heart , and now the heart beats in front of him so he can see the heart beating .
So this model is an intelligent representation of reality .
And it is thanks to today 's communication that I think this is not an unrealistic idea .
Of course , what 's interesting about this is that we ca n't be sure how this idea was passed on , because Homo erectus , who made these objects , did n't have a tongue .
You can go right to a particular problem .
What about the total biological replacement of the knee joint , not just the parts ?
And if we repeat this process to like 10 different people and all of them agree on what the new word is then we get one more word digitized accurately .
Mairead McGuire in the middle Betty Williams on the right hand side bringing peace to Northern Ireland .
Look here you have to end poverty education gender child and maternal health control infections protect the environment and get the good global links between nations in every aspect from aid to trade .
But what really has an effect is telling people that you can sell it back , you can brag about it , but by the time it gets to you , it 's washed thoroughly .
It sends high resolution video pictures back to the operator .
All we have to do is persevere .
Come on Get up .
This is possible and not difficult .
Or a jazz poster with a cheerful and more aggressive face .
You can watch a horror movie with monsters .
But then Pierre in 96 and I gave up our full-time job to build eBay as a company .
So simplicity and predictability are characteristics of simple things .
Dimitri Well , it 's a great home for Milo .
And I looked at it and I said , `` I do n't see anything . ''
I got up this morning at 6 10 am .
That little list would change .
All through that one year my mother never cried one time not once .
Ladies and gentlemen I share your goals .
And then I can find a wall anywhere and start browsing through these photos , or maybe OK , I want to modify this picture a little bit and send it as an e-mail to a friend .
Then they can not get any larger because they don not have a blood supply so they don not have enough oxygen or nutrients .
Until the studies are redone with adoptive children who provide an environment but not genes to their kids we have no way of knowing whether these conclusions are valid .
It has ears that move passively when the head goes .
Now it happens that when we do this , as we peel these peels of onions and get closer and closer to the basic law , we see that each peel has something to do with the previous and the next one We write them mathematically and we see that they use very similar math .
There is only one solution It is not that hard .
One group said that I would set a time when you set average standards , how much time it usually takes for someone to solve this kind of problem .
In addition the revenue generated from that charcoal is 260 million dollars .
Yeah , you can see it here .
I thought this baby was a toy , hence the title of my lecture , and I was wondering if you could use the same physics that makes this thing spin around in the baby , the radiometer that levitates particles into the upper layers of the atmosphere and makes them stay there .
So here is the plan inexpensive refrigeration that doesn not use electricity propane gas kerosene or consumables .
For four to five years , an experiment has been conducted at Georges Bank or Grand Banks near Newfoundland .
Okay , so it 's absolutely surprising that we know as much as we know about our ancestors today , because it 's incredibly difficult A to keep these things , and secondly to get them elevated to the surface .
The son took an elderly woman out of the house crying .
They wanted to capture one other variable which was the patients ' sense of efficacy .
I read Sartre and Socrates .
Do n't ask .
No one has ever seen evolution .
And I think that this digital revolution is now approaching the point where the virtual world that gathers so many people , eventually connects with the physical world , there is a reality that has been humanized , so that the digital world has all the kindness .
This is one explanation for the domination of the memory self .
Those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals .
And these are today 's constellations .
It needs to be one smart puppy able to navigate and make decisions on its own in an alien ocean .
If we can have this document up .
Life began here and whether it was transported there .
Benki comes from a village so far away from the Amazon that to get there , you have to either fly and land on the water or go kayaking for a few days .
And we really appreciate you all being here today .
Thank you .
Gave them about a nine minute response and there we went .
Usually , the implant is more effective in the body if it is more porous , because it contains the tissue of our body .
Everything was going bad .
There were obviously financial sacrifices because he always refused to be paid .
But then I went on a trip to the National Museum of Natural History .
It allies in a really positive and economically viable food system .
Well , I 'm an optimist , I mean , I 'm actually an optimist .
What if we could unravel aging and understand it begin to retard the process or even reverse it .
I walk to work every day or ride my scooter and I come down and park in this little spot .
And just to show you this this is from the CDC .
But more generally you know one other example I think about this which is great relative to the utopian idea .
When we share ideas , we all get more .
We 'll show you exactly what the library looks like .
And on the sides of these chimneys it is warm and filled with life .
We want to add elements to the curriculum .
So you can not use the same models that you use in the United States for making things move forward .
We have clothing that improves the appearance of the skin .
It does not care about perceptual features , such as texture weight and color speed , which virtually never differentiate the use of verbs in different designs .
So that is unfortunate .