What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet?
What is the name of any segment connecting two points of a circle?
In which country does the action of the novel 'In Desert and Wilderness' begin?
Were deputies and messengers appointed in ancient states?
What band did Hanka perform in in the film 'Wife for an Australian'?
In which state is Mumbai located?
Which side number is carried by the tank Rudy from 'The Four Armoured'?
What was the engineer Tarkowski, father of Stasio, building in Egypt?
Are the fruits of some cacti edible?
A quartet - that's how many performers?
Which craftsmen appear in Witkacy's last novel?
What is the name of the element with the symbol Bq?
The anthem of which country is the song 'The Star-Spangled Banner'?
What was the name of the stiff men's hat with a rounded head and narrow slightly raised brim, fashionable in the second half of the 19th century?
What is the convex or concave surface of the liquid near the walls of the vessel called?
What was the name of the physicist who invented the telephone in 1876?
What is the favourite saying of the Horeszko keyholder Gervase?
Which gas is most abundant in the air?
Does the venomous scarf occur in Poland?
According to the proverb, is the nose for the snuffbox or the snuffbox for the nose?
The point where the axes intersect in the coordinate system is the zero point or the cut-off line?
Who is the author of the painting painted in 1892. "Women of Tahiti"?
What is the name of Fidel Castro's brother who took over from him?
What does the word aliant, derived from the French, mean?
Which tropic crosses Mexico - Cancer or Capricorn?
What is the name of the hill in Paris on which the Sacré-Cœur basilica was built?
What, in Greek, is the name of an assumption that requires verification?
What do the words 'Quo vadis' mean?
Which 16th century legendary sorcerer was known as the Polish Faust?
What is the name of the poison made from the root of the scurf?
What is the name of Cuba's capital city?
What is the name of the British intelligence agent who is the protagonist of Ian Fleming's novel?
In what style was the tombstone of Casimir the Jagiellonian made?
In which century was the St. Charles Bridge built over the River Vidava?
In which city did Princess Diana die in a car accident?
Does philately include the collection of postcards and stamps?
Who played the character of Maliniak in 'The Forty-Year-Old'?
On which continent does the Iberian lynx occur?
Who plays Kinga Zduńska in the TV series M jak miłość?
In which mountains do the Chalubinske Gates lie?
Which gate is in the title of Roman Polanski's film?
On which Japanese island is the port of Yokohama located?
Please elaborate on the acronym of the CSO, which was established in 1918.
To which country do the islands of Rhodes and Corfu belong?
Did Stanislaw Baranczak translate the works of Shakespeare?
What is the name of the smoking instrument and the top fang of the boar?
In which film by Krzysztof Kieślowski did Olaf Lubaszenko and Grażyna Szapołowska star?
Complete the proverb: "good habit: don't..."?
How much salt do you have to eat with someone to get to know them well?
Which Polish city was not built right away?
Where did the 1917 apparitions take place?
In the sentence: "He quickly jumped over the fence" which word is an adverb?
Is a bioscope a medical device?
On which river are the cities of Hrodna and Kaunas located?
What is the name of a descendant of Portuguese or Spanish settlers in South America?
So-called dry ice is the solid form of which chemical compound?
What does ochlocracy mean in Greek?
In which city is the novel 'The Prince and the Beggar' by Mark Twain set?
A disciple of which Greek philosopher was Aristippus of Cyrene, the founder of hedonism?
Are Anna Jagiellonka - Duchess of Pomerania and Anna Jagiellonka - Queen of Poland the same person?
What shape is the wimpel, the flag of merchant ships?
Are there mackerel in the Baltic Sea?
In which year during World War II did the Italian government declare war on Hitler?
How many degrees is the sum of the interior angles of the quadrilateral?
What unresolved battle is described in the book 'War and Peace'?
Which Australian city is home to a famous opera house?
Which country donated the Statue of Liberty to the USA?
In which field was Steffi Graff successful?
What was the name of the Polish alpine skiing champion who was murdered by the Nazis in 1941 for her participation in the resistance movement?
Baron is a title higher or lower than earl?
Which saint, a fisherman from Bethsaida, is the patron saint of fishermen?
On which continent is Gabon located?
In what century did Genghis Khan live?
From which dynasty was the king who moved the capital of Poland from Krakow to Warsaw?
From which continent does the lychee tree originate?
In which state is the Klondike, an area known for gold mining?
What was the name of the Greek god who wore a caduceus?
What is the name of a traditional Jewish hat?
Who in Poland appoints the first president of the Supreme Court?
Where was the battle lost by Napoleon fought in October 1813?
In which country is the Victoria Cross the highest honour?
Which Johann Strauss operetta has a flying mammal in its title?
Which river is Kazimierz Dolny situated on?
What is the name of the highest peak in Beskid Sadecki?
Someone "not in the dark" is someone clever or naive?
What was the name of the chorus leader in ancient Greek theatre?
What is the name of a unit in the air force of 2-3 squadrons?
In which year was NATO founded?
What did the factory of the astronomer John Hevelius produce?
On which day of the week did Robinson Crusoe meet Friday?
What is the name of the holiday celebrated on 31 October in Anglo-Saxon countries?
In what century did Dunlop invent the rubber tyre?
What hatches from a frog's croak?
The world championship in which discipline was defended in 2013 by Sergio Martinez?
Cardinal Richelieu was secretary to which French king?
What material is Auguste Rodin's sculpture 'The Thinker' made of?
What is the name of the Polish combat ship that took part in the Second World War and has been in Gdynia for 40 years?
'Running, shouting Mr Hilary' - who is the author of these words?
Who was the discoverer of Victoria Falls?
In which month does the remembrance of the so-called cold gardeners fall?
What is the name of the electrode connected to the negative pole of the current source?
Does the great crested newt occur in its natural habitat in Poland?
'Something you did to Athens, Socrates' - whose work is this by?
Which ruler led to the division of Poland?
What is the name of the village in which Adam Mickiewicz set the action of "Pan Tadeusz"?
From which animal's milk is whey called whey made?
What aristocratic title did Sigmund Krasinski wear?
Is a sombrero a hat, a dish or a dance?
Who in Greek mythology was the god of the world of the dead?
What is the name of the President of Ukraine?
In which country in the 1950s was the first credit card issued?
What was the name of the knight of the Round Table blazing with affection for Queen Guinevere, wife of King Arthur?
Which Polish cabaret featured the characters of Mr Czesio, Turecki?
To whom were the words addressed in "Pan Tadeusz": "ungrateful"?
Are Cape Verde Islands closer to Africa or Asia?
Who played the title role in Colonel Kwiatkowski?
Which ocean is affected by the Cromwell Current in the equatorial zone?
What was the name of Captain Nemo's submarine?
"Wind from the East" is part of which book by Stefan Żeromski?
What is the name of the 19th century Polish painter, author of the series of drawings "Polonia"?
Which country is the creator of Gadu-Gadu from?
From which century did the Gniezno Doors originate?
What is the Latin name for opacity of the lens of the eye?
Who was the successor to Michal Korybut Wisniowiecki?
What is the name of the special court to which the prime minister, president and ministers are accountable?
What does the phrase 'manu propria' mean in Latin?
What is the name of the mythical animal with one horn, a symbol of happiness and innocence?
Patron of which great composer was King Ludwig II of Bavaria?
What was the nickname of the Italian painter Bernardo Belotto?
What was the name of the band in which Marek Grechuta performed?
On which islands according to Jan Brzechwa was a donkey seen being carried by an ant?
Who used a pendulum experiment to demonstrate the existence of the Earth's rotational motion?
On the border of which country and Egypt is the city of Abu Simbel with the temple of Ramses II?
Was Napoleon III an emperor?
The statue of which goddess was Fidias' largest sculpture apart from Zeus?
Can a blood alcohol test be carried out without the consent of the person being tested?
How many wings do fleas have?
In what century was the first gramophone record factory established?
What yellow flower symbolises the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising?
Which apostle doubted the resurrection?
Where did Judas come from?
What was the protagonist of the film 'Wanted, Wanted' accused of?
What was the name of the first day of each month in the Roman calendar?
In which year was the so-called Letter 34 addressed to the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Poland signed?
What is the image of the dead Jesus resting on Mary's lap called?
What was the name of the director of the film 'Citizen Kane'?
What image is the plot of the film Vinci about?
Elgin's marbles a temple in Athens or a collection of ancient Greek sculptures?
In which European capital is the Edward Munch museum located?
Who initiated the Reformation in the Church in 1517?
Which animal is the symbol of a bull market in the stock market?
Does burnout occur in ice hockey?
What is the name of the wooden superstructure at the bow or stern of former sailing ships?
From which century does the direction in furniture-making called Biedermeier originate?
What was the name of the founder of Polish Humanitarian Action?
Who appoints the president of NIK?
In which country did the political campaign called the Great Leap Forward begin in 1958?
Which Polish king defeated the Turks at Vienna?
Where does the minster work?
What is the abbreviation for the Association of Polish Architects?
What is the name of the actor who twice played the role of the barbarian Conan?
Which soup is the symbol of things very cheap?
In which Polish city is Europe's largest castle complex located?
Is "Pan Tadeusz" written in the illusory voice?
In which field was Alexander Solzhenitsyn awarded the Nobel Prize?
Which fish does an unserious, unbalanced person have in their head?
What animals is the manhunt for in the title of Jacek Kaczmarski's song?
From which spaceport did Yuri Gagarin take off?
Do we have an active volcano in Poland?
On the tail of which bird did Hera place the eyes of the giant Argos?
Was Herod I the Great a king of Judea?
What is the name of the settlement where Lasse, Bosse, Anna and Olaf lived in Astrid Lindgren's book?
In which European city is there a university called the Sorbonne?
Which trees is Rogalin near Poznań known for?
What sounds in the reeds in Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
What is the name of the Polish astronaut, General Hermaszewski?
Can a circle be described on every triangle?
What is the name of the virus that causes polio?
Can an MEP also be a member of the Polish Parliament?
What military rank did Henryk Dobrzański, alias Hubal, have?
Sublimate is the chloride of which metal?
What do we colloquially call the last back teeth?
What is the name of the highest mountain massif in the Sudetenland?
What are thigh-length waterproof anglers' trousers called?
In which ancient city was the Tower of Babel built?
Which work of the Trilogy was Hoffmann the first to be filmed?
Which body in Poland elects the members of the State Tribunal?
What is the name given to the Order of Friars Minor after its founder?
Which king found Poland made of wood and left it made of brick?
What position did Otto von Bismarck hold?
What is the name of the letter of the Morse alphabet denoted as three dashes?
A knight's servant preparing for knighthood is...?
Is flax grown in Poland?
What nationality is Paulo Coelho?
What was the name of the Hungarian architect who invented the stacking cube?
Do crocodiles live in China?
Under what guise did Zeus seduce Danae trapped in the tower?
Did Helena compete with Athena and Aphrodite in a beauty contest?
In which country is Brno located?
In which year was the song 'Czerwone maki na Monte Cassino' written?
What is the name of the naval command in the UK?
What is the name of the smoked sheep's cheese produced in the Tatra Mountains?
What is called an attitude of doubt, a loss of faith in the success of a cause?
Which king issued the Wiślicko-Piotrkow statutes?
How many strings does a Russian guitar have?
The Caribbean Sea is part of which ocean?
On which continent do the Iroquois live?
Since which century has the Catholic University of Lublin existed?
Which country is Stieg Larsson, author of the 'Millennium' crime trilogy, from?
Which tyre company promotes the best restaurants in its published guide?
On which continent did Mobutu Sese Seko rule?
Are the Wieprz and Wieprza the same river?
What does the proverb say serves as a guide?
Is the work 'Mikołaj Doświadczyński przypadki' by Ignacy Krasicki written in verse or prose?
In the Polish highlanders, what is the name of the shepherd elder to whom the shepherds report?
Is quicklime a chemical compound or an element?
At the mouth of which river lies the port of Le Havre?
In which uprising did the battles of Igania and Wawer take place?
Does the Nemunas flow through Vilnius?
In which year did the radio programme first begin with the playing of the bugle call from St Mary's Tower?
Does the aurora borealis occur at both poles?
Which disease used to be called rheumatism?
In which country did Taoism originate?
In which battle did Ulrich von Jungingen die?
What is the name of the large-eared canine predator that lives in the Sahara?
What do we colloquially call the sports and entertainment hall in Katowice?
Founded in 1921, TMJP is a society of lovers of which language?
What was the name of the Egyptian god with the head of a jackal?
Which people built ziggurats?
What, in German, is the name of the door frame to which the door is attached?
Whose privileges were restricted by the Great Charter of Liberties?
What do we call a person who unlawfully, arbitrarily appropriates power or a position?
What is the name of the largest colourless cut diamond in the world, mined in 1849 and given to Queen Victoria?
Western Sahara has large deposits of copper, phosphorite or uranium?
Who is the author of the historical novel 'Ashes'?
What is the science of bacteria, viruses and other micro-organisms called?
In which Federico Fellini film is Marcello Rubini the main character?
Can the eel be electric?
Do bobsleighs have handlebars and brakes?
Which animal is a symbol of the stock market downturn?
In which Polish uprising did the Jew Berek Joselewicz take part?
Give the Polish name of the element with the Latin name sulfur?
What is the name of the plant family to which peas, beans and lupins belong?
What was the name of the document issued in 1215 by John Without Land?
What nickname did Diderot give to the servant Pooh in his novel?
According to Jan Brzechwa, where does the reed grow where the beetle sounds?
On which island did Zeus hide the Europe he had kidnapped?
What are the names of two real numbers whose result when added is zero?
What is the official form in which we address the Deputy Minister?
What is the name of a theatrical puppet placed on the hand and moved by the actor's fingers?
What is the name of the entertainment district of Paris, located on the highest hill?
In which American city are the Flushing Meadows tennis courts located?
What was the name of the political police in the Third Reich?
What do the words "Et tu, Brute, contra me" mean?
What is the name of American actor Kirk Douglas' son?
Which European capital is closest to the Polish border?
Which city is the capital of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship?
What is the Latin name for the orthographic exercise of writing down a text?
What is the French name for an official denial or correction of a piece of news?
What is the French word for reading notes by voice?
Who produced the film 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' in 1937?
What was the name of the fortress at the mouth of the Zbrucz River on the Dniester, near Kamieniec Podolski?
What was the name of the economic programme proposed by Mikhail Gorbachev?
Which Asian peninsula is the largest?
Complete the adage: "the first cats for..."
What Latin words are uttered after the election of a pope?
To persistently demand something is to drill a hole in someone's...?
What was the name of the girl from Green Gables?
Is Austria a member of NATO?
In which city did the coronation of Stanisław August Poniatowski take place?
Is calcium a metal?
At what time of day was Herling Grudzinski's Diary written?
What is the name of the romantic park founded by Helena Radziwill in 1776 near Nieborow?
After the death of which ruler did the Diadochs divide his kingdom?
In which ocean does the island of St Helena lie?
Is the Sahara also located in Algerian territory?
Where was Arthur Schopenhauer born?
'My Summer in Downing Street' is the memoirs of which British politician?
Please provide the Polish name of the economic organisation with the abbreviation EFTA.
In which year did the first nuclear test take place?
To whom did the Durendal sword belong?
Who played the dulcimer best in Pan Tadeusz?
What was the name of the barber of Seville?
In which country is the DPA news agency headquartered?
How many litres are contained in one cubic decimetre?
What is the name of the large tank for carrying fuel?
What is the name of an electric bus powered by a grid suspended over the road?
What is the angle between the geographical meridian and the magnetic meridian called?
Give the chemical formula of ice.
What is the name of Georgia's capital?
What is the name of the member of the Monty Python group, played in the films A Fish Called Wanda?
Who in the Navy is the equivalent of a Lieutenant General?
In which city is the Dragon of Dragons Award for documentaries awarded?
Every how many years was the mythical phoenix reborn from the ashes - every 50, every 500 or every 5,000 years?
French physiologist Albert Calmette has developed a vaccine against which microorganism?
From which country did the dark, strong beer porter originate?
Which medical instrument was invented by Lembeck?
Is military service compulsory in the UK?
Conjunctivus is which mode of the verb in Latin?
Please decode the abbreviation CSCE?
Which Tsar of Russia ordered Yermak's expedition to Siberia in 1582?
In which country do the so-called Transylvanian Alps, or Southern Carpathians, lie?
In which play by Alexander Fredro in the first scene does Gustav enter through the window?
Which book consists of 114 sur?
Whose wife was called the 'borderland wolf' because of the Tartar pogroms?
Which country was home to the so-called Bizonia - the combined occupation zones of the UK and US?
What do we call a person finding pleasure in the infliction of physical pain?
"The Career of Arthur Ui" presents a parody of which politician?
What charge do protons have?
What is the name of the channel connecting the Irish Sea to the Celtic Sea?
What was the name of the 'alien' spaceship?
On what horse according to folk beliefs does St Martin arrive?
What does the word succour mean?
Into which sea does the Danube flow?
What is the name of the scleroprotein that is the basic building block of hair and nails?
In his self-portrait with Saskia, Rembrandt depicted himself with a woman sitting on his lap. Who was this woman to Rembrandt?
What used to be the name of the camp cone in the army?
On which continent are the mountains of Notre Dame located?
Where is Olympus Mons located?
How many Sundays does Lent count?
What is the name of the director of the film 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind'?
What chemical element has the symbol Fm?
Medieval goosebumps are they a plucked or wind instrument?
What is the name of the title character, a lovable creature from another planet, of Spielberg's film?
In which country were the Odra computers manufactured?
In which century did Rudolf Diesel develop the diesel engine?
How many seeds fit in a date palm fruit?
What is the Greek name for a three-part painting or sculpture?
What was the name of the Polish military organisation whose commanders were Generals Grot, Bór, Niedźwiadek?
What is the name for slavery to the Turks or Tartars in Old Polish?
What is a low-value card called in bridge?
What is the title of Stieg Larsson's trilogy, the final volume of which is titled The Castle of the Sand that Fell?
In which year did Father John Paul II visit Poland for the first time?
How many medals did the Poles win at the 2013 World Athletics Championships in Moscow?
Which city was the Titanic heading to?
How many metres is a hectometre?
The long strand of hair from the temples worn by Orthodox Jews is...?
In which Stanislaw Bareja film is there a scene with bowls bolted to tables?
In which century did Charles Darwin live?
In which year was the People's Republic of Poland renamed?
Which cabaret is made up of Stanislaw Szelc, Jerzy Skoczylas and Leszek Niedzielski?
Who was crowned king of Poland earlier: Jagiello or Jadwiga?
Which blacksmith's product brings good luck?
Federico Fellini, nominated for an Oscar 12 times, received the award for directing?
What was the name of the eponymous Anna, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's book?
Which character in 'Quo vadis' is called Copperbeard?
What is the name of the Vatican's representation to the government of a country?
What colour calendars does Piotr Szczepanik recommend burning in his song?
Potsdamer Platz, Alexander Platz - these are the names of metro stations in which city?
What is the name of the highest Polish award that Jerzy Buzek and Norman Davies received in 2012?
What do we call a simple pyramid whose base is a regular figure?
To visit an Aztec city, do you have to go to Mexico, Bolivia or Peru?
What is the name of the gear changing device on a bicycle?
In which part of Danzig is the cathedral with the famous organ built by Jan Wolff located?
Who issued the Great Charter of Liberties in 1215?
In what century was the Queen Victoria and Prince Albert Museum established in London?
Are mammography and ultrasound the same method of examination?
What is the one word for milk, butter, cheese?
Does a green sign with the name of the village oblige you to slow down to 50 km/h?
Which Greek god's name is borne by the American ships used to land on the moon?
What was the name of the Swedish naturalist who created the classification of organisms?
What was the name of Eiffel, the builder of the tower in Paris?
In what year was the festival at Woodstock first held?
How many legs does a photographic tripod usually have?
Who wrote 'Promised Land' and 'Peasants'?
What was the name of the telegraphist in 'The Four Armoured'?
In which era did St Thomas Aquinas live: the Middle Ages or the Renaissance?
In which century did Henry VIII reign?
In which industrial plant is a rolling mill usually located?
What is the name of a water pipe popular in the Middle East?
What was the name of the sports club of which Ryszard Ochódzki was president?
Which Russian tsar introduced the grahazel?
What did he want to name his daughter after the coal man from the film 'Teddy Bear'?
Who built the first diesel engine in 1897?
Is the honeymoon period before or after the wedding?
Are there flamingos in South America?
In what year was the first artificial Earth satellite launched?
Whose name is the Song and Dance Ensemble 'Silesia' named after?
What was the name of the 1947 resettlement action of the Ukrainians?
Which country did the writer Verne come from?
What was the name of Esau and Jacob's father?
Who created the opera based on the poem 'Eugene Onegin' by Alexander Pushkin?
Point out the preposition in the sentence "I am going to school".
Is a hook gun an incisive weapon or a firearm?
In sport, what is an irregular play, hit, etc. called?
What is the name of the international organisation of writers founded in London in the 1920s?
In which city did Beethoven create and die?
What was the name of the prince, the hero of Alexander Borodin's opera?
How many times has Innsbruck hosted the Winter IO?
Which of Shakespeare's plays featured Polonius, Claudius, and Gertrude?
Can churches and religious associations apply for EU grants?
Is Bydgoszcz on the Vistula?
Who is the author of the words: "sacred love of the beloved homeland"?
Does Norway border Russia?
1444 - what century is that?
In which country was Alfred Nobel born?
Expand the acronym NFZ.
What is the name of the horse breeding centre?
What is the letter abbreviation for a person of undetermined identity?
Do dolphins have teeth?
Which country does Bermuda belong to?
What was the name of the Polish painter Makowski?
With which country does Poland have the shortest border?
What is the different name for an ocular incompetence resulting from imperfections in the shape of the cornea?
What was the name of Hades' wife, who spent part of the year underground and part on the ground?
What is the meaning of the word Werwolf in Polish, which was the name of a German diversionary plan during World War II?
The ruler of which state was Semiramide?
What is the pass that starts a volleyball match called?
What was Wokulski's name?
In what style is St Mary's Church in Gdańsk built?
How many pairs of eyes does a flounder have?
What was the name of the author of 'Anna Karenina' and 'War and Peace'?
Who is the author of 'A short dissertation between a lord, an alderman and a parson'?
Which number is greater: -1 or -1.5?
The district of which city is Szombierki?
What is the weight of the goods including packaging called?
How many adopted children does Marek Mostowiak have?
What is the name of the Pole who constructed a glider called a hang glider in 1896?
What is the lowest military rank called?
In what non-SI units do we measure the focusing power of a lens?
What was the name of the band in which Michael Jackson performed with his brothers?
Is Iceland a republic?
What is the name of the number which determines the ratio of the length of the circumference of a circle to its diameter?
One hundredth of a rouble is...?
What form did Satan take to tempt Eve in paradise?
What is the name of a question that does not need to be answered because it is common knowledge?
What is the French term for glasses that only stay on the nose?
In which film does Zdzislaw Maklakiewicz introduce himself with the words: "I am very sorry, I am the engineer Mamoń"?
Please provide the exact date when the November Uprising began?
By which sea is Algeria located?
In which Spanish city is the Alhambra Palace located?
In which Warsaw cemetery is Leopold Staff buried?
What was the name of the peace pipe smoked by Indian chiefs?
On which island stood the colossus depicting the sun god Helios ranked among the seven wonders of the world?
What number are caged eggs labelled with?
What is the name of the mother of the mother and the cake?
Which work is subtitled: "Historia szlachecka z roku 1811 i 1812 we dwunastu księach wierszem"?
In which century was the railway from Kraków to Zakopane established?
Did Napoleon's legitimate son ascend to the French throne?
Which artist recorded the song 'Raspberry King' with the band Budka Suflera?
What is the name of the famous Spanish tenor Carreras?
Did Moniuszko create operettas?
What was the surname of the brothers Joseph and Casimir, Olympic wrestlers?
In which uprising did Bolesław Prus take part?
In Buddhism and Hinduism, what is the state of liberation from suffering and desire, the ultimate goal of every believer, called?
Swiekier is the old Polish name for the wife's father or the husband's father?
How many minutes does a handball match last?
The Prime Minister of which European country was Aldo Moro?
Thinking of two opposites we say fire and ...?
What do we call the horse sport, equestrianism, in Greek?
What is the name of the stamp album?
How many barrels does a hunting gun called a double-barrelled shotgun have?
In Podhale, what is the name of the owner of a country farm?
What is the official language in Cuba?
What does autumn begin with in a song performed by Czesław Niemen?
Who commanded the Polish army in 1673 at the Battle of Chocim?
What was the name of the yacht on which Henryk Jaskuła circumnavigated the Earth alone?
How many countries does San Marino border?
Which Polish king was the last to fight a war against the Teutonic Order?
A dybbuk is the soul of a dead sinner ascending into a living body or a ghost in a household?
On whose side did Sweden fight in both wars?
Which disciple did Jesus give the Aramaic name Kephas to?
In which Italian city was St Francis born?
The protagonist of which novel by Żeromski is Cezary Baryka?
Was there a disciple named Bartholomew among the twelve apostles?
Which sport did Franz Beckenbauer play?
What was the highest denomination present in circulation before the 1995 denomination?
Which queen was protected by Athos, Porthos, Aramis and d'Artagnan from Richelieu?
Which position does Przemyslaw Tyton play?
The guitarist of which rock band played one of the roles in 'Pirates of the Caribbean at the End of the World'?
On which continent is the Takla Makan desert located?
In which city was Julian Tuwim born?
Was the idea of lighting the Olympic torch practised in ancient Greece?
Which planet in the Solar System orbits the fastest?
Is X muse referred to as television or film?
Entente cordiale is an alliance concluded in 1904 between France and which country?
Where was the first regular radio station established?
Who conquered the South Pole in 1911?
What does the term fair play mean?
Is it a traffic offence to overtake a vehicle on a pedestrian crossing?
What is the name of the postulate that no two electrons in an atom have identical all four quantum numbers?
The flag of which country depicts a red shield on a white background?
Which European capital lies in the Wallachian Lowlands?
Was John III Sobieski king when he commanded the Battle of Chocim?
In which sea is the island of Bornholm located?
Which country did the knight Cid come from?
In which year was Stanisław Wyspiański's 'Wedding' premiered?
What insects does myrmecology deal with?
Was Queen Victoria the empress of India?
From what does he who wars with the sword perish?
What is the name of the court writ providing the accused with security of arrival from abroad?
In which century did the Rokosz Zebrzydowski take place?
Kora with the band Maanam sings: "The clouds are hanging over the city". Over which one?
What is the name of the heroine of the Tomb Raider computer games?
Which country's historical land is Provence?
Who commanded the Polish troops at the Battle of Szczekociny?
Who is the central figure of the Veit Stoss altarpiece?
"My", "your", "our" - what pronouns are these?
How many syllables are in the word dusk?
Which American president attended the Yalta peace conference?
Who created the writing system for the blind?
Who is the patron saint of the oldest university in Prague?
What is Major Hubal's real name?
Who is the author of the children's poem entitled. "Selfie"?
Which country invaded Finland during the so-called Winter War?
Who did the soldiers of the Legions call Grandfather?
"Explaining Dreams", "Introduction to Psychoanalysis" - these are books by which author?
What was the nickname of Queen Mary I Tudor of England?
What is the name of the drawing made up of intersecting lines placed on banknotes?
In what century were the words of the Rota written?
What was Makuszynski's name?
Which singer launched the hits 'Like a virgin' and 'Material girl'?
What is the name of the depression on the Moon's surface caused by a meteorite impact?
In which European capital does the Acropolis rise?
The team of which country is customarily referred to as the Orange?
From which continent do the lovebirds originate?
Did Poland have a king named Ludwik?
Which band's singer is Grzegorz Markowski?
How many husbands did Scarlett O'Hara have?
Is the bird named Secretary a carnivore or herbivore?
Which language is official in Brazil?
The mineral called talc is the mineral of which element?
On which continent is Patagonia located?
Who is the author of the poem 'Recollection', sung by Czesław Niemen?
The sculptor Slawomir Dunikowski has donated his oeuvre to the state. Where can we admire his museum?
A state officer who prosecutes criminals and charges them in court is...?
In honour of whom is Kotan day celebrated?
The symbol for which element is Cr?
In which mountains is the summit of Połonina Wetlińska located?
"The beetle sounds in the reeds". - who is the author of these words?
In which city was the Pikador cabaret active?
Through which London borough does the zero meridian pass?
Is a hook gun an alpine equipment or a weapon?
Promise great benefits and riches - then promise what mountains?
What was the occupation of the eponymous Lord Jim, the hero of Joseph Conrad's book?
What was the name of the former imperial residence in Beijing?
Which country's capital is Sofia?
In how many styles are swimming competitions held?
What bird appears on the Austrian coat of arms?
Diablotka is it spicy fish soup or puff pastry pie?
The forint is the currency of which country?
What is the name of the combined chambers of the Polish Sejm and Senate?
What was Rumcajs' profession before he became a highwayman?
What was the name of the first US president?
Who is the author of the novel 'Ashes and Diamonds'?
In which country are the ruins of the ancient city of Memphis located?
How many rooks stand on the chessboard at the start of the game?
Are synognaths a variety of pigeons or titmice?
What is the name of the officer in charge of economic affairs on the ship?
Did Jan Kochanowski study in Italy?
Who is the author of the poem about the Trumpet Elephant?
In which year was the Song and Dance Ensemble 'Mazowsze' founded?
Cubiculum is what kind of room?
What was Irena Kwiatkowska's job in the TV series The Forty-Year-Old afraid of?
In what century did the Battle of Somosierra take place?
What was the name of the part of Poland directly incorporated into the Third Reich during World War II?
What was the name of the daughter of King Colchis, wife of Jason?
Which river runs through the Bledowska Desert?
In which province is Piła located?
Who is the author of the play Cat on a Hot Tin Roof?
What do we call the ravioli for Christmas Eve borscht?
Is the surface area of a badminton court larger or smaller than a tennis court?
In which country is the book 'Lolita' set?
What is the name of the science that deals with the study of coats of arms?
Where does the kiwi bird occur in the wild?
What chemical element and peninsula in the Baltic Sea share the same name?
Which animal kidnapped Thumbelina from her home?
Did Sigmund Krasinski write the 'Divine Comedy'?
Does Gibraltar have a larger area than Warsaw?
Where did Pygmalion originate from?
What was the name of Vincent van Gogh's brother who supported him financially?
What was the name of the Transylvanian prince who, in alliance with the Swedes, invaded Poland in 1657?
John Glenn or Valentina Tereshkova - who has been in space before?
To which country does the island in the Adriatic Sea called Krk belong?
What is the name of the capital of Belarus?
Who is the author of the words: "such shall be the Republic as its youth cherish"?
Ju-jitsu is an Old Japanese style of hand-to-hand combat or using bamboo sticks?
Who wrote the libretto to Stanislaw Moniuszko's opera 'Halka'?
St Anthony of Padua belonged to which order?
What does the Latin word quasi mean?
In which country does the highest peak in South America rise? - Aconcagua?
In which Greek city does the Olympic torch burn?
Which country does Luis Figo come from?
Did Juliusz Słowacki also write in prose?
According to the song, what knocks to the rhythm of the cha-cha?
What is the name of the last letter in the Greek alphabet?
What was Che Guevara's name?
From which work by Aldous Huxley is the quote: "when the individual feels, the community fails"?
In which country does the Neris flow into the Nemunas?
How many female vocalists were part of the band ABBA?
Gubałówka is more or less than 1,000 m above sea level?
What is the name of one half?
What is the name of the British actress who played the head of intelligence in the Bond film series?
Are there more consonants or vowels in the Polish alphabet?
What was the name of the north wind god in Greek mythology?
In which year were the separate German states of East Germany and West Germany established?
To which country do Muslims make the pilgrimage to visit Mecca?
What did the god Eol exercise authority over?
From which people did Goliath hail?
What is the name of the crew dining room on the ship?
What do we call a section of text starting with a new line?
What disease is transmitted by the female forkhead mosquito?
What is the name of a traditional Russian carriage made of three horses in a row?
What, according to the Old Gentlemen's Cabaret, is good for everything?
Who was the creator of the Mickey Mouse and Pluto the dog characters?
Who attempted to lead Eurydice out of Hades?
How many times per year do the monsoons change direction?
What is a caddy?
Is a tuja a coniferous or deciduous plant?
A district of which city is Manhattan?
What body part did Eeyore lose one day?
In which year did Otto III and Boleslaw the Brave meet at the Congress of Gniezno?
An altar of three parts is a triptych, and what is an altar of two parts called?
What nationality was the writer Kallimach, teacher of the sons of Casimir Jagiellon?
Isotopes are atoms with the same mass or atomic number?
In which language does merci mean thank you?
What is a female deer called?
An old song used to sing 'buy auburns'. Are they little bouquets of flowers?
What names did Mozart bear?
What was the name of General Rowecki alias Grot?
What does the proverb say the canine wants?
What is the name of the 12-point scale describing earthquakes in addition to the Richter scale?
What is the name of Zakopane's main promenade?
Which bird is a symbol of peace and harmony?
What is a poem devoid of rhyme called?
The capital of which Italian region is Florence?
From the repertoire of which band does the song 'I am from the city' come from?
Which animal is the symbol of the Bialowieza National Park?
Illegal performance enhancement is...?
What colour were the hills of Africa in the title of Ernest Hemingway's novel?
What does the Latin phrase 'ad exemplum' mean?
What was the name of the son of an aristocrat abandoned in the jungle and raised by monkeys?
What is the German name for a flammable cord used to initiate an explosion at a distance?
What was the nickname of the great socialite Henryk Goldszmit?
What did Marysia do in Konopnicka's fairy tale about Orphan Marysia?
What is the name of a collective farm in Israel?
What was the name of the lord of the castle who married the eponymous Balladine from Słowacki's novel?
How many times has Alfred Hitchcock won an Oscar for directing?
What does the word 'lupus' mean in Latin?
Is sugar cane grown in Brazil?
Where did Heraclitus come from?
Is the Council of Ministers the executive or the legislative branch?
What was the name of the bulky Gall, hero of the Asterix comics?
To which country do the Aeolian islands belong?
In which state in the USA is the city of Detroit located?
Are vultures under protection in Poland?
In which TV series did George Clooney play the role of Dr Ross?
What did the awl come out of?
Which side fought more Poles in the Civil War?
What was the name of the battleship that started the Second World War?
Is Camembert cheese Greek cheese or French cheese?
What was the name of the author of the painting 'The Night Adventures of John Olbracht'?
What is the name of the writer, author of 'A Diary Written at Night'?
Which tropic passes through Australia?
In which country is the geographical land called Transylvania located?
The leader of which band is Adam Darski - Nergal?
Is the boa constrictor or venomous snake?
Which city is the capital of Mexico?
What is Maryla Rodowicz's regret in the song "Today there are no more real gypsies"?
Whose name is the Krakow Academy of Fine Arts named after?
What role did Stanislaw Mikulski play in 'More Than Life at Stake'?
What is the name of the leather workshop?
What was Nemtsevich's name?
What is the title of the second part of 'Bridget Jones's Diary'?
Is the baboon living in the rivers of India and Burma a mammal?
What was Witos's name?
What is the name of the structure that protects the bridge structure from the impact of the krill?
The highest peak of which mountain is the Corno Grande?
Which univ. is older: Sorbonne or Jagiellonian University?
What is the name of the drawbridge in London, built in the 19th century?
What was the name of Bellerofont's winged steed on which he fought Chimera?
Who were the gladiators addressing when they said: "those going to their death greet you"?
What is the name of the cosmodrome in Kazakhstan?
A bardic is a type of quill, sword or battle axe?
What is the name of the day of rest celebrated by the Jews?
Is the gibbon a mammal?
What eye colour do Siamese cats usually have?
Which Florentine historian and politician is the author of the book 'The Prince'?
Is salt still being mined in Bochnia?
What is the name of the detective whose adventures were first described in the book 'A Study in Scarlet'?
Is there a racecourse for horses in Wrocław?
What was the name of Heracles' wife?
Which monster was killing with its eyes?
Which sport did Mariusz Czerkawski practise professionally?
Is acclamation the rejection of a motion by vote?
In which city is the 91-metre high Battle of the Nations Monument located?
In which century is the action of the novel 'Countess Cosel' by Kraszewski set?
What are the names of the large assemblages of marine fish?
In which city is Bertold Brecht's 'Threepenny Opera' set?
What was Lutoslawski's name?
Which actor sang the song 'I'm such a cold bastard already'?
What do we call an artist who depicts battle scenes in painting?
Which film was made earlier: 'Man of Iron' or 'Man of Marble'?
Is a panegyric a work of praise or mockery?
From which continent do freesias originate?
What is a pac worth, according to the proverb?
In which city is the Jacek Malczewski Museum located?
Tonsura is a robe or a way of shaving the head?
In economics, determining the yield on capital is otherwise known as cutting off what?
What are the paper curl wrappers called?
In the delta of which river lies the city of St Petersburg?
Since what year has Alaska functioned as an independent state?
How many countries did Poland border in 1989 (not counting the maritime border)?
What is the name of a non-conventional treatment method that involves applying pressure to specific points on the patient's body?
What is the name of the woman in the Phrygian cap, a symbol of France?
A representative of which movement in literature was Emil Zola?
What was the name of the author of detective novels, creator of the character Hercule Poirot?
In which European capital can we visit the Pergamon Museum?
What is Latin for metabolism?
What is the three-minute fight period in professional boxing called?
We sing: "Poszła Karolinka do Gogolina". From which region does Karolina originate?
Where is the soul of a man who is afraid?
What are the 12 chosen disciples of Jesus referred to as?
From which Polish song do the words come: "wprzódy w morzu wyschnie woda niźli u nas będzie zgoda"?
What was the name of the first representative of the Jagiellonian dynasty?
What does 'Opus Magnum' mean?
In which century did Henryk Wieniawski live?
Whose name was the airborne 303 Squadron named after?
What is the name of the song sung to put a baby to sleep?
What is the name of the mysterious creature of unknown origin, the snow man?
In which year was the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier built in Warsaw?
Who did Heracles strangle by lifting him up?
What is Latin for extension of the term of a contract or postponement of an obligation?
What was the name of the Italian western created by Sergio Leone?
The founder of which movement was Robert Baden-Powell?
Which organ fits in the pericardial sac?
Who played the lead role in the film 'Last Tango in Paris'?
What hydrocarbon is the main component of mud gas?
What animal is featured in the emblem of Venice?
How many perpendiculars does the segment have?
Do seals live only in seas and oceans or also in lakes?
What is the name of the largest penguin species?
Are splinter and despondency the same thing?
How did the scholar Lavoisier die?
What is the unit of sound intensity equal to 1/10th of a bale called?
What is the name of the musical instrument and the black grouse's tail?
Who is the head of state in Jamaica?
What did the legendary Basilisk kill with?
Part of which ocean is the Yellow Sea?
Is the red-tailed Amazon a species of ant or bee?
How is the genre of literature called science fiction in Polish?
What other colours, apart from yellow and red, are on the Lithuanian flag?
What language does the word strike come from?
What was the name of the great Turkish drum?
The plastic hoop, which is set in motion by the rotation of the hips, is...?
One of the mythical gorgons and the sea urchin share a common name?
Are Cappadocia and Languedoc historical lands located in the same country?
Which country did Bob Marley come from?
Which celestial body casts a shadow on our satellite during a lunar eclipse?
What was the name of the ancient Roman emperor's bodyguard?
Does the wildebeest antelope have horns?
Which bay does Qatar lie on?
Which animal according to the proverb walks its own paths?
What was the name of Oedipus' father?
In which month does the 100th day of the year fall?
Which pole of the Earth did Roald Amundsen conquer in December 1912?
Is the raccoon prairie dog a predator?
In which city was Skamander active?
Is kale a traditional Ukrainian dish, a plant or part of Hasidic clothing?
Whose wife in 'Promised Land' was Madame Miller?
In which part of Dziady did Mickiewicz include the "Letter to the friends of Muscovites"?
In which European capital does the Obelisk of Luxor stand in Concord Square?
Do caecilians live in a terrestrial environment?
In which city does the sports and entertainment hall called Spodek stand?
Who headed the PSL after the death of Wincenty Witos?
Maltese are a breed of which pets?
The lower tusks of a boar are sabres, and what is the name of the upper tusks of a boar in hunting dialect?
What is the name of the monument depicting a statue of a woman holding a flaming torch and a plaque with the US Declaration of Independence?
What was the name of the first dog in space?
From which plant is peanut oil produced?
What character did Clark Gable play in Gone with the Wind?
Did Alfred Nobel invent TNT?
In Egyptian mythology, what was the name of the guardian of the dead escorting them to court?
Does Afghanistan border Iraq?
What was the name of a Polish actress named Jędrusik?
What was the name of the imperial treasury under the principate?
What is the name of the actress who has twice played the role of Lara Croft?
What is the name of the square in London where Nelson's column is located?
Who did the thread dance with in Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
Who was Morpheus' father?
Is the ruler of Oman a sultan, emir or king?
What does foxtrot literally mean in English?
Can amendments be tabled during the second reading of the bill?
Was Stanislaw Kisielewski an MP?
Is Turkey a member of the EU?
In what film did Richard Chamberlain play a priest torn between his vocation and love?
What chemical symbol does lead have?
Who was the father of Pegasus?
In what century did the cult at Fatima begin?
Who is the author of the work 'On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres'?
For whom does Mrs Rollison ask the Senator for mercy in part III of Dziady?
What illness did Nel, the heroine of 'In Desert and Wilderness', contract?
What is the simultaneous firing of multiple rifles or cannons called?
Can European funds finance theatre classes for people with disabilities?
What is the name of the place where, according to the Revelation of St John, the clash between the forces of good and evil is to take place?
What is the title of the equivalent of foreign minister in the USA?
At what age was Michelangelo born?
Which work by Zbigniew Herbert ends with the words: "Be faithful, go"?
The Labrador Basin, the Guyana Basin, the Angola Basin - which ocean basins?
What is the name of the best student in the class or school?
For which era is the slogan 'working at the bottom' characteristic?
How many years is the term of office of the Polish President?
In which city was the band The Beatles formed?
What is mammalian science called?
What special property did Hades's awl possess?
What does the phrase 'in vitro' literally mean?
What is the pseudonym of the Polish self-taught painter Epifaniusz Drowniak?
Which Pole was the first to circumnavigate the Earth alone without calling at a port?
Which Renaissance artist was famous for his woodcuts?
In which city is the Basilica of the Holy Sepulchre located?
The proposal to become president of which country was given to Albert Einstein in 1952?
Michelangelo's work 'The Last Judgement' is it a fresco or a watercolour?
What was the name of Russia's currency before the outbreak of the October Revolution?
What is the name of the largest stadium in Poland?
What was the name of the spider girl from Mai's Bee?
Which German Chancellor was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
Which peak is higher: Giewont or Kasprowy Wierch?
In which country was gunpowder invented?
In which century was the Hague Convention banning dum-dum weapons concluded?
Which tropic passes through South America?
Are the Niechcics the protagonists of "Above the Niemen" or "Nights and Days"?
In what year did the Korean War begin?
What does the Latin word 'vivat' mean?
What was the name of Wokulski's beloved?
According to Ignacy Krasicki, 'nice bad beginnings, but the end...'?
What was the name of the pharaoh in "Pharaoh" by Bolesław Prus?
In which park does the former Podchorążówka building stand, where the November Rising began?
On which novel by Marek Hłasko was The Base of Dead People directed?
What, in French, is the name of the room in the theatre where the audience stays during the interval?
In an acute triangle, are all the angles acute?
What is the name of a negative resolution regarding government action?
Is the Congo the longest river in Africa?
Which tree represents a person's family roots?
Which Shakespearean character asks the question 'To be or not to be'?
What is the name of the bunch of flowers hung on a building to mark its completion?
Which country did Celsius come from?
What is the name of a tennis match played by mixed pairs?
Which instrument has more strings: the harp or the cello?
Which country's army was defeated by Napoleon at Jena in 1806?
In which town was Rudolf Höß, commandant of the Auschwitz camp, executed?
How many digits does a PIN usually count?
What is the title of Marek Piwowski's film set on a cruise ship?
What are the lines on the map connecting points of the same seabed depth called?
In the saying, we say that someone is bald as which part of the body?
What is the name of the flexible board that allows bumps when jumping into the water?
Lituanian Studies is the study of the literature and language of which country?
Kirys is the name of an incisive weapon, a firearm or part of a knight's armour?
In Islamic architecture, is the bab a window or a gateway?
Which fish is the biggest?
Who formulated the law of universal gravitation in the 17th century?
What is the name of the expert in handwriting analysis?
What is the name of the Polish submarine that destroyed 15 enemy ships during the Second World War?
In which modern country lies the historic land of Galilee?
What is the paddle used for?
Is Iceland bigger than Ireland?
Which king established the Cracow Academy in 1364?
What is a two-person instrumental or singing ensemble called?
What do we call dressing in the kitchen?
What river can be seen from Drohiczyn Castle?
Which part of the garment does the Frenchman mean when he says 'chapeau bas'?
What was the Albatross girl's name?
What is the name of a quick turn performed on the toes of one foot?
Which country's capital is the city of Kathmandu?
What does 'casus belli' mean in Latin?
The platypus bird acquires food in a way that is unusual for songbirds - how?
At the bottom of which ocean do the Imperial Mountains rise?
What is the name of a textbook for basic literacy?
What is the set of all points in the plane that are equidistant from a single point called?
Are dahlia and georginia the same thing?
How many agents were there, "Charlie's angels"?
Which Tsar is depicted in the statue of the Copper Rider in St Petersburg?
In what year did the Spanish Civil War end?
The long white robe that the priest wears under the chasuble is...?
Who is the author of the poem 'In the midst of unrest, the Lord God strikes a huge bell'?
In which year did the USA declare war on Germany during the First World War?
What is inevitable fate, fatum, called in Islam?
Who is Dominikowa for Jagna in the novel 'The Peasants'?
Is a man in hot water impulsive or rather calm?
What is the branch of mathematics dealing with plane figures called?
In which year after the break-up of Yugoslavia did Croatia declare independence?
In the battle of which town with the Tartars did Henry the Pious die?
What coup took place in 1926?
In which state is the city of Kandahar located?
Popular in the US, apple pie is a shortcrust pastry with which fruit?
Are Catholic priests now bound by tonsure?
What was the name of the muse of the dance whose attribute was the lyre?
What colour is a concept that you don't have?
Fencing, chess, sabre - the competitions of which sport?
In which mountains is Zawrat Pass located?
What geometric symbol exists on the ten-cent note?
What rock is Gerlach made of?
What is the preservation of meat by saturating it with saltpeter and spices called?
Was Ladislaus Jagiello the first Polish king of that name?
What is the name of the decorative outer garment worn over the alb?
Are secans and cosecans trigonometric functions?
What is the name of the aquatic spider that builds so-called bells underwater?
In which year did the Finnish-Soviet winter war break out?
What do we call the inverse operation of differentiation?
Which monastery of which order is located in Swieta Lipka?
What were the names of noble knights in feudal Japan?
Who first sailed to the coast of North America - the Vikings, the Phoenicians or the Chinese?
Where did Caroline go in the Silesian folk song?
"Submarine" is the English name for what type of ship?
What was the name of the daughter of Boleslaw the Pious, wife of Ladislaus the Short?
What, according to the saying, is good for a fracas?
How many twenty-minute parts are there in an ice hockey match?
Please complete the proverb: "he has worn the wolf a few times...".
How many days off on demand is an employee entitled to per year?
What was the name of the discoverer of X-rays, Röntgen?
What was the name of the lead singer of the band Hey?
Do woodpeckers fly away to warm countries from Poland for the winter?
What is hair removal for therapeutic or cosmetic purposes called?
What is the name of the bird that lays the smallest eggs?
On which day in December are the Nobel Prizes in Economics always presented?
Czy knock down to to samo co knock out?
For her role in which film did Vivien Lee win an Oscar in 1940?
Whose likeness appears on the ten-dollar note?
During the reign of which king was the Bullion Commission established?
In which century did Bruno Schulz write The Cinnamon Shops?
What was Lilla Veneda's sister's name?
What is the name of a speed skate? The word comes from the Russian skater?
In which city did the coronation of Stanisław August Poniatowski take place?
New Zealand has left-hand or right-hand traffic?
Held in Munich, the Oktoberfest is a celebration of which beverage?
During the reign of which queen did the union of England and Ireland take place in 1707?
What is the name of the author of the books 'Karlsson from the Roof', 'The Lionhearted Brothers'?
Do torsions live in a terrestrial or aquatic environment?
Does diffusion occur in solids?
The virtuoso of which instrument was Franz Liszt?
A representative of which epoch of painting was the French painter Eugène Delacroix?
Which Roman philosopher, writer is the author of the words: "the good of the people should be the supreme law"?
What is a morbid fear of death called?
In which Polish city is Lake Czerniakowskie located?
The leader of which band is Ozzy Osbourne?
Who was the director of the films 'Whispers and Screams' and 'Persona'?
Has there ever been an image of Henryk Sienkiewicz on circulating banknotes in Poland?
Who in Adam Mickiewicz's fairy tale was already in the garden, already greeting the goose?
What was the name of the cunning fox in Maria Konopnicka's fairy tale about the dwarfs and orphan girl Marysia?
Please decipher the abbreviation PTTK?
A ridge is the sharp edge of a mountain slope or a mountain pass?
What is the annual plan of projected state expenditure and revenue called?
What gates is the proverbial ox staring at?
Finish: "the force of evil upon..."
Who wrote the 'Ode to Youth'?
What was the name of Ali's dog from the primer?
Which forest did Winnie the Pooh live in?
In sailing, what is the name for a wind that blows obliquely from the stern?
Was the city of Bonn part of West Germany or part of East Germany?
Is oxidation accepting or donating electrons?
Who wrote the poem Laura and Philo?
What country other than China has access to the Yellow Sea?
Which modern state bears the Latin name Helvetia?
Did Norway take part in the First World War?
In psychology, what is the ability to express one's own opinion clearly called?
At which German town in 1805 did Napoleon force the surrender of the Austrian army?
Please state Tolkien's first name?
Out of sugar was a king, out of gingerbread a page - and out of what a princess?
How many days does the President have to sign a law approved by the Parliament?
What kind of coal is mined at the Turów mine?
In which century were maize, tobacco, potatoes brought to Europe?
What does the Crown of the Earth mean in mountaineering?
Which colour, apart from red and white, forms the flag of Yemen with them?
What do the largest peninsula in North America and the Canadian breed of hunting dog have in common?
What two elements dominate the Earth's crust?
In which discipline was the Rimet Cup awarded?
What is the name of the branch of zoology that deals with the study of arachnids?
Are tigers found in Africa?
In which European country is the highest and oldest order the Order of the Saviour?
Which scientist discovered the law of motion of the pendulum?
What was the name of the shuttle that made its last space flight?
How many days did Jesus fast in the desert?
The district of which city is Oliva?
In which Polish series did the characters Walus Kwiczoły and Jędrus Pyzdry appear?
Which Renaissance artist is the author of the painting 'St Anne of Solitude'?
What was the name of the steel smelting furnaces known in Egypt as early as 3000 BC?
Was Hedwig, wife of Henry I the Bearded, canonised?
The virtuoso of which instrument is Kaja Danczowska?
What is a basic service soldier's salary called?
What is the name of the largest lizard?
Is an alcove a piece of furniture, a weapon or part of a building?
Who commanded the Polish army at Grunwald?
During the reign of which Polish king, according to the proverb, did the nobility die out?
"O, news of the commune!" - From which work by Adam Mickiewicz does this quote come?
How many years did the war between Poland and the Teutonic Order start in 1454 last?
What is the name of the Jewish cemetery?
Where did Koziołek Matołek go in Kornel Makuszyński's book?
Which Polish writer described visions of glass houses?
How many two-characters are there in the word beetle?
What is the boxing referee's command to the fighters to stand off from each other?
Within which country is the Kara-kum desert located?
What is the name of an old Polish silver coin worth a good joke?
What was the code name of the Polish Army's action in 1947 to liquidate UPA units?
Which city did Nazi troops besiege for 900 days?
Which actress played the lead roles in the films 'Blue Angel' and 'Blonde Venus'?
Was Safona of the island of Lesbos a historical or mythical figure?
Did Antonín Dvořák live in the 20th century?
What milk is missing from a person who has everything they want?
What does 4WD stand for on cars?
In which voivodship is Giżycko situated?
Is there a Grand Slam in golf?
Did the poet Lucjan Rydel also create plays?
In which country was the "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen" proclaimed?
Which coffee contains alcohol: Turkish or Irish?
In which city did Slawomir Mrozek die?
What was the name of the author of the novel 'Faithful River'?
In which Polish coastal town is the Fountain of Neptune located?
On which continent was Carthage located?
What was the name of the director of the first Polish film in 3D: "Bitwa Warszawska"?
Which Australian insects form huge mounds, 6 metres high?
Which is longer: the nautical mile or the kilometre?
Which folk band did Irena Santor sing in at the beginning of her career?
In which city is the Ross cemetery located?
In honour of which Greek goddess were panathenae held?
What does Venus have under her feet in Botticelli's painting 'The Birth of Venus'? "Birth of Venus"?
Are all vowels in the Polish language voiced?
What doesn't a resolute person blow?
What was the name of American General McArthur?
What was the name of the owner of the patisserie where the Green Balloon group was active in 1905-12?
Was Torun part of the Duchy of Warsaw?
How many sons did the patriarch Jacob have?
The dismissal of which workers caused the strike at the Gdansk Shipyard?
Part of which ocean is the Red Sea?
To which vegetable do we send back something that is good for nothing?
What is the Greek name for a morbid fear of fire?
In what century was the last episode of 'The Doll' published in the pages of the Daily Courier?
What was Michelangelo's name?
What is the name of the aunt in Agnieszka Osiecka's song 'Damą być'?
Has Matołek the goat finally arrived in Pacanów?
By which sea is Inflants located?
What is the name of the modified zirconium oxide that imitates diamond?
In which month of 1968 did student protests take place in Poland?
In prison dialect, what is an illegally smuggled letter called?
To whom does Oleńka from Potop address herself with the words: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss"?
What was the period from Christmas to Epiphany called in Old Polish?
Please give the formula for the volume of a cuboid with edges a, b and c?
In which city was Giuseppe Verdi's opera 'Aida' premiered?
What was the name of the traveller and soldier who conquered Madagascar?
What vegetable is one of the main ingredients in the kopytki?
For whom was the camp called oflag intended?
Is the Vatican a member of the UN?
In which city in the USA is the film 'Love it or Throw it' set?
Which river with a length of approximately 300 km separates the USA and Mexico?
In which American city was the Declaration of Independence signed?
In which European city is the church of La Sagrada Familia located?
How many children did Moniuszko have?
Does Monaco host Formula One rallies?
How many months begin with the letter L?
What is the name derived from the Latin for wooden wall cladding?
In which city does the Tower's medieval fortress stand?
The Leopard is a tank of what manufacture?
What is the English name for a hot sausage roll?
What is the name of the archangel described in the Book of Daniel as the protector of the people of Israel?
What is the name of the desert area within Mongolia and China?
What is the name of the world's largest radio telescope in Chile, launched in 2013?
How is the fin positioned in cetaceans: vertical or horizontal?
What is the name of the square in front of the Royal Castle in Warsaw?
The Hajduks in the Polish army in the 16th and 17th centuries fought on foot or on horseback?
What naked goddess did Actaeon catch a glimpse of in the bath?
What is the name of the main church of the diocese where the bishop's seat is located?
What is the name of the Spanish Parliament?
What do the guts play when we're hungry?
Which Argentine leader's wife was Evita?
Do Unitarian Christians recognise the supremacy of the Pope?
In which ballet by Pyotr Tchaikovsky do the characters of Odette and Siegfried appear?
Tribushon is an obsolete name for which subject?
What was the colloquial name for the Soviet GAZ off-road vehicles?
In which cemetery is Chopin's tomb located?
In which century did the Polish writer Mikołaj Sęp-Szarzyński live?
Did Herbert von Karajan compose symphonies?
What is the name of the largest lake in Armenia?
What was the name of Dr Judym's beloved from 'Homeless People'?
In which voivodship does Pliskova lie?
Whose beloved was Dalila?
Is the University of Oxford located in London?
Tonkin is a rod-making material made from what plant?
In which year was the Treaty of Versailles signed?
What is the name of the lowest figure in the cards?
In hunting dialect, what are the hare's ears called?
In which city is West Side Story set?
Przemysław Niemiec and Rafał Majka are Polish cyclists or speedway riders?
What distinguished the brave lead soldier in Andersen's fairy tale?
What street did Elmo and the Cookie Monster live on?
Of whom do we say that he "stopped the sun, moved the Earth"?
What was the name of the 17th century Spanish painter, author of, among other things, 'The Forge of the Volcano'?
Which tragically deceased actor patronises the award for best actor/actress of the younger generation?
Stanza was the jester of how many kings?
Do rice and bamboo belong to the same plant family?
Is a rookie a petty criminal or someone young and inexperienced?
How many sides of equal length occur in an isosceles triangle?
What was the name of the former trade route between China and Europe?
In what language did Count Jan Potocki, author of, among other things, The Saragossa Manuscript, write?
Is a conformist a person who indiscriminately conforms to or opposes norms?
What did the pedlar Jarema collect in the Civil War series?
Under which king was the Wilanów palace built?
Ascorbic acid is what vitamin?
How many rulers of Poland came from the Angevin dynasty?
What was the name of the Italian director who made the film 'Hidden Desire'?
Miłosz, Żeromski, Reymont - which of them did not win the Nobel Prize?
Bouillabaisse soup made with fish, lobster, crabs is a delicacy of the cuisine of which country?
Thaddeus Andrew Bonaventure, fought for US independence. What is his name?
What is the name of a parallelogram whose lengths of all sides are equal?
How many days is November?
What was the name of the protector of artists, synonymous with the patron saint of the arts, who died in 8 BC?
What is the second digit of the number pi?
What is the name of the French actress who played the lead role in Krzysztof Kieslowski's films 'Three Colours: Blue' and 'Sponsoring'?
Is estragon an herbaceous plant or an enzyme produced by the liver?
Which book hero called his chosen one Dulcinea?
What was the name of the misanthrope, the main character in Midsummer?
What sport does Patrick Chan, two-time world champion, practise?
In which century was the first Polish postage stamp issued?
Near which lake is Juliusz Słowacki's Balladyna set?
Which painter depicted Tadeusz Rejtan in his painting, who is trying to prevent the Partition Sejm from taking place?
Which wonder of the world do we call something overly delightful?
What is the English acronym for the UN's agriculture and food agenda?
What is the short soldier's shoulder blade called?
Who was Seweryn to Cezary Baryka in Przedwiośń?
What breed is the title character of the TV series Commissioner Alex?
How many circles did the quadriga have?
What was the name of Zbyszek of Bogdaniec's uncle and guardian?
What is the square root of nine?
How many towers rise in the title of the second volume of the novel 'The Lord of the Rings'?
From which country does Yunnan tea originate?
How many days is the first quarter of a leap year?
Titian, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci - they created in which era?
What colour is used to describe macabre jokes?
Who was the father of Shem, Cham and Japheth?
Is hafnium an element?
Which saint's name is borne by the road signs-crosses erected in front of level crossings?
What kind of water should be poured into an aquarium containing guppies?
What used to be called inkaust?
What is the Polish name for the element calcium?
Which city did Batman live in?
Which country is Pope Francis from?
What was the name of Thomas Mann's older brother?
What did the baba do with her cock according to the folk song?
Which conference of the heads of the three powers took place earlier - Yalta or Potsdam?
In which city did St Paul the Apostle die?
In Ogniem i Mieczem, who competed with Skrzetuski for the hand of Helena Kurcewiczówna?
In which field is the Koscielski Prize awarded?
Paul or Gavel - who 'was peaceful and did not disturb anyone'?
Please elaborate on the abbreviation IPN.
What, according to the proverb, is the way to a man's heart?
Square metre how many square centimetres?
What is the subject of onejromance?
Who besides Jozef Pilsudski bore the title of Chief of State?
Are there marsupials in North America?
What is the name of the tube that connects the eardrum cavity to the throat?
Which sport was Coach Kazimierz Górski associated with?
What is the name of the science that deals with the study of cells?
Which Dutch town was liberated on 30 September 1944 by General Maczek's division?
Which country is the papal guard from?
Does Cambodia have access to the sea?
In which city do the Academy Awards galas take place?
What was the name of the Queen of the Baltic who loved a fisherman and had to suffer punishment for it?
What was the name of the American writer who created the Jason Bourne character?
Do cereal grains contain starch?
In the Catholic Church, what is the rite of removal of Satan from a possessed person called?
Complete the proverb: "You ordered..."
Are actors Pawel and Rafal Królikowski related?
Are carbohydrates sugars?
Which country did the famous director Alfred Hitchcock come from?
In which city was Nicolaus Copernicus born?
In which Polish city is the Gingerbread Avenue of the Stars located?
Which bird can imitate human speech: the nightingale or the warthog?
What is the name of one of the largest dams in the world on the Colorado River?
What are the edible onion leaves called?
What is the process of periodic skin shedding in amphibians and reptiles called?
What was the name of Horeszka's daughter with whom Jacek Soplica was in love?
Under which dynasty did the Szczerbiec become the coronation sword?
Which country did William Alexander become king in 2013?
In which series do Malgorzata Kozuchowska and Tomasz Karolak play the main roles of Natalia and Ludwik Boski?
What nationality was Willem Barents, who discovered the Straits of Spitsbergen?
What is the white dye of birch bark called?
How many years was Charles De Gaulle president of France?
What, in Italian, was the name of a prisoner in the Nazi camps who acted as a caretaker for other prisoners?
What does Stanisław Jachowicz warn against in his fairy tale 'Chory kotek'? What does Stanisław Jachowicz warn against in the fairy tale "Sick kitty"?
What is the name of the French revolutionary song, the anthem of France?
What is the name of d'Artagnan's homeland, a land in south-west France?
What is the name of the village on the Warta River with the Raczynski Palace and a cluster of old oak trees?
Under which king was the Crown Tribunal and the Lithuanian Tribunal established?
The Bab-al-Mandab Strait also known as the 'Gate of Tears' separates which two continents?
What is the name of the largest modern amphibian?
Is the sea urchin an animal or a plant?
The mythological warrior woman and the great South American river are...?
What is the ability to move objects without touching them called?
A monument to which Polish national hero is located at West Point?
Which village is the Leszno Lake District named after?
A district of which city is Tyniec?
Did Anna Dymna star in all three Karguly and Pawlak films?
Whose son was Ugedej, the great Mongol khan?
Into which sea does the Nile flow?
What is the nominative object of the name Pinocchio: Pinocchio or Pinocchio to Pinocchio?
What is the Scout greeting?
Rosette, angora, tortoiseshell - which breeds of animal?
What was the old name for ink in Poland?
Which of the great monotheistic religions is the youngest?
What is the name of a wood carving artist?
Who was the first president of the PEN club, established in 1925?
What do we popularly call a hybrid, non-breed dog?
Who do we say has sticky hands?
Strip pricing is overpricing or underpricing?
Is coronaroplasty a dental or cardiac procedure?
On which hill in Rome was the temple of Jupiter located?
What was the name of Slawek, the Speaker of the Sejm before the war?
In old Polish law, what was the name of an inheritance left without heirs or a will?
How many competitions does the Nordic Combined consist of?
What instrument does Woody Allen play?
In which part of the body is the organ of Corti located?
Who was the first to send a radio message across the Atlantic?
Full, carriage, straight - the terms from which game?
The same name has a sticker with the name of the merchandise and the applicable behaviour. Which one?
From which country does armagnac, an alcoholic beverage similar to cognac, originate?
Which Song and Dance group was formed earlier: "Śląsk" or "Mazowsze"?
What is the Latin for approval of an international agreement by the President?
Which French city was liberated by Joan of Arc in 1429?
What is the name of a territory administered by two states?
Who played the male lead in the film 'Naked Instinct'?
Which university professor was Jan Hus?
Is the AH1N1 virus influenza or smallpox?
What is the name of Europe's largest wild mammal?
What was Baba Yaga's hut made of in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel?
From which country does the Doberman dog breed originate?
From which dynasty did King Louis XV descend?
From which dynasty did Archduke Franz Ferdinand descend?
What's not a rose in the title of Stanislaw Bareja's film starring Jacek Fedorowicz?
Which god was hiding under the figure of a swan during his tryst with Leda?
What are the parallels with coordinates of 23 degrees 26 minutes called?
Who in the Muslim tradition made the journey from Mecca to Jerusalem and later to heaven on a steed named Burak?
Who told the hero of Perfect's Autobiography to play such things that I am still ashamed?
300 seconds - how many minutes is that?
Which body part was Achilles' weak point?
Who played the lead role in the TV series 'John Heart'?
How many stars are on the flag of Australia?
Is Amnesty International a governmental or non-governmental organisation?
What contemptuous term do the wizards refer to ordinary people in Harry Potter?
Do the pinch hitters play football or handball?
Who played the lead role in the film 'Coincidence'?
Does Ujazdowskie Avenue in Warsaw belong to the Royal Route?
Which country was attacked as a result of the Barbarossa Plan?
Every how many years is the International Festival of Contemporary Music "Warsaw Autumn" held?
Which plant reaches a greater height: bamboo or sugar cane?
What is the name of the city where Covent Garden was founded in the 18th century?
What was the name of Nel the heroine in The Desert and the Wilderness?
How many times has Indira Gandhi been Prime Minister of India?
What is the disease of poor vision in low light called?
In which film does a man in a white suit pluck lilies from a pond?
What was the name of a magazine coming out in the first half of the 18th century in London?
What was the name of the Italian currency before the introduction of the euro?
What was the name of the eponymous pilot from Stanislaw Lem's novel?
What is the name of the outer garment in the shape of a rectangular piece of cloth with an opening for the head, used by Mexican pastoralist tribes?
Is an aquarist a person who keeps fish in an aquarium or a painter with watercolour paints?
What is the nominative plural of the noun sage?
Do traditional Venetian gondolas have rudders?
What is the protuberance on the horse's back, behind the neck, called?
What is the name of the deepest place in the Atlantic Ocean?
How many years is a Polish passport issued to adults valid?
What was the name of the revellers' choir in which Mieczysław Fogg performed?
How many grams are equal to the English unit ounce?
From which historical figure is the ruler's title Emperor derived?
Which September was the Polish Post Office in Gdansk attacked?
What is the name of the type of bicycle with a large front wheel and a small rear wheel?
Which dynasty reigned in Lithuania, Poland, Hungary and Bohemia in the 16th century?
How many total fingers does a person have?
Please provide a solution to the riddle: doesn't eat, doesn't drink, but walks and beats?
Is Brussels sprouts a variety of cabbage or pumpkin?
What, in French, is the list of works played in a given theatre at a given time called?
Who is the leader and soloist of the band Kult?
What does the spectacle of naumachia represent?
On which continent does the Gobi Desert extend?
Who is the author of the 'treatise on good work'?
In music, what is it called to perform a piece of music from sheet music without preparation?
Was Pandora's box full of perpetual wealth and happiness?
The Black Hancza begins its course in Poland - and in which country does it end?
What bay is Havana located on?
What is the outer layer of the Sun's atmosphere called?
What is the speed limit in a residential zone?
Which Roman leader said "The dice have been thrown" when crossing the Rubicon?
What is the inscription on: "the living I convene, the dead I mourn"?
The epoch of which metal followed the Bronze Age?
What was the name of the designer of the first rigid airship?
What was the name of the Spanish volunteer troops that took part on the side of Nazi Germany against the USSR in the Second World War?
How many hulls does a catamaran have?
At what distance is the sprint in track cycling held?
Which Polish city was one of the largest ports in the Baltic in 1938?
What is the name of the Roman god to whom the oak, wolf and woodpecker were dedicated?
On whose book was Sydney Pollack's film 'Farewell to Africa' based?
In which part of the eye is the retina and macula located?
In ancient Rome, was the people's tribune an official defending the plebs or a foreign minister?
Did Poland win an Olympic gold medal in men's volleyball?
Which river is the longest tributary of the Danube?
Who is the creator of the paintings: "Saskia in the red hat", "Saskia as Flora"?
What is the science of living organisms called?
What was the specific name of the uprising in Sicily in 1282?
In which country is the city of Bangkok located?
What is the sound made by a hen called?
What sport did Jacek Wszoła practise?
Do congruent figures have equal areas?
Which Ukrainian city is known for the Potemkin Steps?
Monday is which day of the week in English?
What does the Latin 'festina lente' mean?
What is the name of the Russian alphabet in use today?
In what year did the UN begin its activities?
Are pistachio nuts and peanuts the fruit of the same plant?
What was the name of the king from Greek mythology whose touch turned everything into gold?
Hydrophobia is a panicky fear of?
What was the name of India's first ever female Prime Minister?
The Cervantes Institute was created to disseminate which language?
The parsec is a unit of distance used in which field of science?
The troops of which country suffered defeat at the two battles on the Marne during the First World War?
What is the name of the pope's signet seal?
Is the livre a former Italian coin?
What is the name of trichloromethane, an anaesthetic?
In which century was the Vienna opera house founded?
What is the acronym for the British Royal Air Force?
In which archipelago is Pearl Harbor located?
Who sings the song 'Na zakręcie' to lyrics by Agnieszka Osiecka?
What statuette is the top prize at the Berlin Film Festival?
What is the basic interval of a diatonic scale called?
How many radians does the solid angle count?
What is the name of the bee family?
What is the name of the crustal vibration detection instrument?
Does the novel 'A Study in Scarlet' feature a Sherlock Holmes character?
What is the Latin name for a heartbeat that is too fast and strong?
Gros is how many dozen?
From which language was the term 'wiktuały' borrowed into Polish to refer to food products?
Which Roman goddess was identified with the Greek Aphrodite?
What were Poseidon's attributes?
What was the name of the young farmer, the hero of the Old Tale?
Who played Lusia in the film 'No rose without fire'?
In which year was the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw established?
On which day is the National Day of Remembrance of 'Soldiers of the Outlawed' celebrated?
Was Ernest Hemingway a Nobel Prize winner?
Has the band Bon Jovi ever performed in Poland?
What is the name of the work containing a list of drawings and descriptions of coats of arms?
At the mouth of which river is Kolobrzeg located?
In which city was the Racławice Panorama presented before World War II?
What is the average depth of the Baltic Sea - more or less than 100 m?
What does 'dura lex, sed lex' mean?
Which country does Manuel Noriega come from?
In which city is the mosque named Heart of Chechnya located?
Who is the author of the paintings: "Storks", "Cranes"?
Which African country lies on the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea?
What is the name of the branch of forensic science that establishes identity from fingerprints?
Which Sienkiewicz novel was filmed by Alexander Ford?
On which river is the Russian capital located?
Which American actor's real name was Marion Morrison?
Which city was the seat of British authority in India in the 19th century?
What country did the car contemptuously described as a soapbox come from?
What is the name of the device for collecting an electrical charge that has Rembrandt's home town in its name?
Which king hosted the feast given by Nicholas Wierzynek?
What is the name of a Japanese ritual suicide?
What colour is the mineral azurite?
What was the highest title in the hierarchy of state positions in feudal Japan?
Is the puppet a puppet put on the actor's hand or controlled by strings?
How many metres is a kilometre?
Who among the Big Three Tenors was Italian?
Which tempo is slower: andante or adagio?
Which actor, Francis Coppola's nephew, starred in the film 'Leave Las Vegas'?
Who appoints ambassadors in Poland?
What dam created Lake Nasera on the border between Egypt and Sudan?
What field of art were Edward, John and Joseph Reszka involved in?
La Cucaracha - what does the word mean?
What is an involuntary repetitive contraction of facial muscles called?
From which part of the body does the fish start to spoil according to the proverb?
Was Andrzej Lapicki a member of parliament?
What is the diagram of brain function currents called?
What is the name of American actor Henry Fonda's daughter?
What is the name of the horizontal pit whose mouth is located on the slope of the mountain?
In which city did the main character of the novel 'Around the World in 80 Days' start and end his journey?
What does 'manus manum lavat' mean?
On which bay of the Baltic is Helsinki located?
What field of art did Gerard Wilk practise?
What was the name of the goddess mother of Aeneas?
What is the name of the American film director, creator of 'Kill Bill', 'Inglourious Basterds' and 'Pulp fiction'?
In which city does the Wieniawski International Violin Competition take place?
Where did Napoleon lose his last battle?
Which Italian composer dedicated an opera to the Hun leader Attila?
Whose braid was moved as a constellation?
From which opera do the words: "the fir trees hum on the mountain top"?
What is the name of a word formed by rearranging the letters or syllables of another word?
Which partition of Poland took place in 1772?
In which city is Galczynski's 'Enchanted Carriage' set?
What was the name of the Russian writer Dostoevsky?
Which branch of art did Phidias and Polyclet deal with?
In which country does the River Bug have its source?
Which princely family founded the oldest Polish museum, still operating in Kraków today?
What two works of Heracles were related to horses?
What is the name of the game where you use a ball to knock down posts?
From whose name is the title of Verdi's opera 'Nabucco' derived?
How many km does the Earth's radius measure at the equator?
Bronowice is a district of which city?
Since which century has Buckingham Palace been the official seat of the British royal family?
What is the polygon with the smallest number of sides called?
What is the name of the scientific discipline that studies the state and structure of the population?
What ocean is the Maldives located on?
Which voivodship is Katowice the capital of?
In 1883, a volcano erupted on the border of Sumatra and Java - what was its name?
What was the name of Eve Horeszko's daughter from Pan Tadeusz?
What was the name of the little minded bear from the popular bedtime show?
In which Caucasian country is the city of Gori located?
Who played the role of Mr Kleks in Krzysztof Gradowski's film?
Is Luxembourg a member of the EU?
What was the name of the founder of Arianism?
Does the Prime Minister attend the Cabinet meeting?
What is the Polish name of the constellation Libra?
In which country was jazz musician Jaroslaw Smietana born?
Can a solid change from a gaseous state to a gaseous state bypassing a liquid?
Who made King Midas grow donkey ears?
What does the term presto mean?
What else is trinitrotoluene called?
Can the Moon's surface temperature exceed 100 degrees Celsius?
Which metal is the best conductor of electricity?
What was the code name of the Council to Aid Jews?
The Super Bowl is the final game in which sport?
What lady appears in the title of Peter Tchaikovsky's opera?
In which year did Nixon step down as US President because of the Watergate affair?
What is the name of the electrical appliance that is used to prepare toast?
Which painter painted the historical picture 'The Election of Stanislaus Poniatowski'?
What is the name of Harry Potter's friend?
Complete the adage: everywhere is good, but...
In which national park does Kasprowy Wierch rise?
Whose attribute is the trident?
How many battleships did the Polish army have in September 1939?
Is the adverb conjugated by numbers?
What was Stanislaw Wiechecki's nickname?
Which ruler in the early 13th century united the Mongolian and Turkic tribes?
What vehicles do participants in the Vuelta a España race each year?
On whose collection of short stories did Wojciech Has make the film Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass?
What was the name of Vinicius' beloved?
What is the French name for a car with a folding roof?
Which tree is referred to as a smrek in highland dialect?
Is the Chinook a hot or cold wind?
Was Fryderyk Chopin's father, Nicolas, a Pole?
In the factory of what did the main character of the novel Carmen work?
How many times in a lifetime do agaves flower?
Which continent do the Pygmies come from?
A bushel is an Anglo-Saxon unit of area, volume or radioactivity?
How old do you have to be to be elected to the Senate?
What is the name of the system in which priests hold power?
In which city was Jan Matejko born?
Is Moscow on the Volga River?
What country does champagne come from?
In the film The Dictator, Charlie Chaplin played a dual role. And who was the writer and director of this film?
Who played the female lead in 'Pretty woman'?
By which ocean is Chile located?
Who played the role of Colonel Dowgird in 'Black Clouds'?
What is the name of the second largest pyramid at Giza?
What is the smallest two-digit natural number?
What is the name of the thin pancake made of flour and water, a speciality of Jewish cuisine?
What were the names of the daughters of Atlas and Plejone, later transferred to the night sky?
What was the name of the album for which the photograph was taken at Abbey Road?
What animals build the feeding grounds?
What strait is known as the Pillars of Heracles?
In which century was the Hanseatic League formally established in Germany?
What does it mean to say that someone is in a blessed state?
What are the four front teeth in the maxilla and mandible called?
Which sea does Lebanon have access to?
What, in Latin, is the adaptation of a work for staging on stage called?
What is the name of the primitive laundry organ and the mass of the goods packaging?
Please provide the name of the French actress with the initials B.B. who starred in the film "And God Created Woman", among others?
In which mountains did Mieczyslaw Karlowicz die?
Is a strudel a meat dish or a pie with fruit?
On what continent is Guatemala located?
Apart from Cancer and Aquarius, what other zodiac sign is related to water?
What was the name of the 1717 Diet, during which no MP spoke?
What is the name of the capital of Cyprus?
A region of which country is Andalusia?
What is the name of unwanted emails?
What do the letters QED written at the end of a logical argument mean?
In how many Polish cities did coronations of Polish kings take place?
What was the name of the last Aztec ruler overthrown by the Spaniards under Cortez?
Who died blowing up Kamieniec Podolski?
What is the name of the science that deals with the treatment of animal diseases?
What is the name of a mollusc in the decapod family whose secretions are used to make sepia?
What is the name of the plant where oil is processed?
What was Mrs Dulska's name?
What is the name of the mechanical musical instrument in which the tape actuates the hammer mechanism of the piano?
Which work by Przybyszewski is a manifesto of Polish modernism?
By which means of transport is the par avion consignment transported?
What was the name of the French writer who was Frédéric Chopin's life companion?
Absolute, theocratic monarchy still exists in Europe - in which country?
What fruit is Calvados strong brandy made from?
Is a rhizome the underground or aboveground shoot of a plant?
How many wives did Henry VIII have?
Matzevot are the gravestones of followers of which religion?
Under what guise did Zeus seduce Leda?
Who cleaned out the stable of Elida's King Augias?
Is a squadron an infantry or cavalry subdivision?
Is potassium a metal?
From which royal family did Boleslaw III the Wrymouthed descend?
What sport does Maja Włoszczowska practise?
Is the mouse a species of mouse, bird or rabbit?
Are the quadriceps muscles at the front or back of the thigh?
In which city is the film 'The Pianist' set?
What is an animal or plant organism that lives at the expense of another organism called?
In the novel The Godfather, what was the name of Don Corleone's youngest son?
What nationality was the composer Georges Bizet?
In which Belarusian town was a Polish air base located?
Who in the Dabrowski Mazurka set the Poles an example of how to win?
Who invented the rabies vaccine?
Under what three-letter acronym was the secret military organisation of opponents of Algerian independence known?
Which Greek doctor is the author of the medical oath?
Which country has land borders with Mexico and Canada?
How long was Mephistopheles to be the husband of Mrs Twardowska?
Which country fought the Opium War with China in 1839-42?
In which city is Schönbrunn Palace located?
In which century did Jadwiga's wedding to Ladislaus Jagiello take place?
What was the name of the first antipope?
What was the name of the island to which Napoleon was exiled in 1814?
During the reign of which Tsar did the January Uprising break out?
In what century did Tamerlan conquer the Golden Horde?
What colours appear on the flag of Israel?
Bad mood is the result of getting out of bed with which foot?
What animal is featured on Berlin's coat of arms?
What does the Latin 'nolens volens' mean?
In which state is the city of Kolkata located?
How many years according to Genesis did Methuselah live, 699, 969 or 999 years?
Which Andersen fairy tale describes the childhood of a certain swan?
The movements of which figure cannot be imitated by the chess hetman?
In which country in the 15th century was the War of the Two Roses fought?
Which Wyspianski piece tells the story of Lucjan Rydel's wedding?
In which European city is Sheremetyevo airport located?
The Breton Peninsula is the westernmost part of which country?
Was 'Pan Tadeusz' filmed before the Second World War?
What is the legal protection of state functionaries called?
Which planet in the Solar System has the longest period of rotation around its axis?
What is the first part of the breviary prayer called?
The Florian Psalter from the turn of the 14th and 15th centuries is called the psalter of which Queen of Poland?
Which museum's collections can be admired in the Winter Palace in St Petersburg?
Which ocean does the state of California lie on?
What do we call a minister without a ministry of his own?
What is the name of a vehicle adapted to travel on land and water?
Are there wolves in the Bialowieza National Park?
In which century was the International Red Cross founded?
Who invented the telephone?
The world trade union federation was established before or after the Second World War?
What is the Latin name for voluntarily collaborating with an enemy to the detriment of one's own state?
What was the name of the flying island in 'Gulliver's Travels'?
Who is the author of the collection of short stories entitled. 'Cyberiada', published in 1965?
Who in China launched the Great Leap Forward and the Great Cultural Revolution?
What was the name of the colonel of the German General Staff who carried out the assassination attempt on Hitler?
On what continent did the Goths live?
What common name covers the islands of Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica?
He returns from the war, and in church she says: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss". What song is this?
What feather does the Cracovian wear in his cap?
Alpha, beta, gamma - these are the initial letters of which alphabet?
What is the name of the stage in the circus?
Is the exclamation mark a reflexive or non-reflexive part of speech?
Within which state are the cities of Jaipur, Rajpur and Madras located?
Are the Brit Awards about film, music or theatre?
In which city does the Gates of Dawn, also known as the Medininkai Gate, stand?
What is the process of declaring someone blessed in the Catholic Church called?
How many children did Father Virgilius have in the popular children's game?
By which ocean does El Salvador lie?
What, according to the proverb, doesn't one swallow do?
How do we play the viola - by leaning it against the shoulder or against the floor?
How many complete weeks is a calendar year?
Has the construction of the Tower of Babel been completed?
What is the name of the smallest artillery unit consisting of a cannon and its operator?
A representative of which direction in painting was Artur Grottger?
From which country does sangria - a drink made from red wine and fresh fruit - originate?
What was Marshal Rydz-Smigly's name?
In which city do the footballers play at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium?
What is the point in the Moon's orbit closest to the Earth called?
What colour is the beak of the male blackbird?
On which continent were the so-called Boer Wars fought?
Who is at the head of Pakistan - the Prime Minister, the President or the King?
Did Elizabeth II carry the title of Empress of India?
In the basin of which river are the Osowiec and Czerwone reserves located?
In which century did Boleslaw the Bold rule?
Who must, when you command?
What is the name of a sanitation project to remove rodents?
On the territory of which modern country was the Olmec civilisation established?
The districts of which city are the City and Westminster?
Is cheddar cheese a hard or soft cheese?
From which country did the so-called Red Brigades originate?
At what age was Thomas A. Edison born?
Does the A2 motorway cross Poland from east to west or from north to south?
How many players does an ice hockey team have?
What is the higher degree of the adverb 'well'?
What is the name of a strong Portuguese wine from an island in the Atlantic Ocean?
What is the name of the soft men's cap worn to sleep?
Which two seas are connected by the Corinth Canal?
What colour is the black stork's beak?
How do we define nervousness in an actor before a stage performance?
What was the name of the commander of the defence of Westerplatte?
In which city is the Theatre Stu located?
What is the greatest depth of the Baltic Sea?
What American city lies on the islands of Staten Island and Long Island, among others?
Is Cuba a member of the United Nations?
Who was the Speaker of the Four-Year Sejm at the time of the adoption of the May 3rd Constitution?
In which river did Thetis bathe her son Achilles?
To which order did James Wujek belong?
What is a genetically determined lack or deficiency of melanin called?
In folk tales, what is the name of the devil guarding the treasures of the castle in Łęczyca?
What do we call performance without words, acting expressed through facial expressions?
What were the names of the Spanish rulers who signed the edict banishing all Sephardic Jews from Spain in 1492?
Which lens focuses the rays more strongly - the shorter or the longer focal length?
Does the total length of the Kasprowy Wierch cable car exceed three kilometres?
In what city is the opera Carmen set?
Is ASEAN an organisation of African or Asian countries?
In which year did Germany attack the USSR?
What was the name of Chałubiński, the doctor and promoter of the healing qualities of Zakopane?
Who appoints judges in Poland?
The same name is given to the hand-thrown projectile, the semi-precious stone and the southern fruit. Which one?
What is the name of a celestial body that sends out cyclic pulses of radiation?
Which American newspaper made the Watergate affair public?
What is the speed limit on motorways in Poland?
When was the Chrysler skyscraper built in New York: before or after the First World War?
MI6 and MI5 are the intelligence and counterintelligence of which country?
What nationality was Ferenc Molnar, author of 'The Boys from Bronze Square'?
What is the name of an optical recording format that uses a blue laser?
In how many parts is the so-called Venetian window divided vertically?
What is the name of the lower house of the British Parliament?
Who played the role of Wolodyjowski in Hoffmann's Ogniem i mieczem?
From which continent do the Tuaregs originate?
Is National Geographic magazine published in Polish?
How many countries does Mongolia border?
Could it be school, registration, Mendeleyev?
What was the fourth wagon in Julian Tuwim's poem full of?
How many children does Lech Walesa have?
In which year was the Battle of Borodino fought?
Which European country has the lowest population density?
What is the name of the camera flash?
Is vaseline soluble in water?
What is the name of the cycle of three literary works?
What was the name of the fairytale sailor whose adventures were described by, among others, Bolesław Leśmian?
How many diagonals in a rectangle can be drawn from a single vertex?
Was Han Solo a Jedi knight?
The swearing-in of which president ended the mission of the government-in-exile?
How many official languages are there in South Africa?
Which king founded the Academy of the Noble Cadet Corps?
What was crowned with the apple, the symbol of royal power?
In which century did Seneca the Younger live?
What is 1/100th of a euro called?
Which country's capital is Nairobi?
In which city is the novel 'The Plague' by Albert Camus set?
A bridge contract announcing the taking of twelve levs is called otherwise...?
Who else besides the fighters is in the boxing ring?
In which mountains is the Chryszczata peak located?
What shape is the Greek letter delta?
Who composed the orchestral piece 'Threnody to the victims of Hiroshima'?
What is the part of the skeleton that protects the spinal cord called?
In which European country is Grenoble located?
In which country is the cave with the Paleolithic Altamira paintings located?
Do juwenalia and juwenilia have the same meaning?
In which country is the Order of the National Legion of Honour conferred?
What is the name of the largest port in Europe?
What was the name of the Italian violinist Paganini?
Who played the title role in the comedy Kiler?
According to the proverb - to leave without having dealt with anything is to leave with...?
Does the Vatican have its own radio station?
What name did God give Jacob?
In which century did Ludwik Waryński live?
Who is the head of Australia?
How many time zones is the globe divided into?
How many times has Zdzislaw Szurkowski triumphed in the Peace Race?
Who is the head of state in Sweden?
In which town is the Wujek mine located?
What do we dilute the rum with to make grog?
What is the name of a town in the Lubelskie Voivodship famous for breeding purebred Arabian horses?
What is the name of the German astronomer who constructed the three laws of planetary motion?
What was the name of Józef Piłsudski's adjutant?
In which European capital is Piccadilly Circus square located?
What title was given to royal sons in Spain and Portugal?
Which Dutch painter painted the picture 'Eating potatoes'?
Did the Polish and Lithuanian hetmans appointed by the king also command the common army?
Are puff peas a plant or a baked good?
On which continent does the buttonfish live?
What was the name of the sports club whose president was Ryszard Ochódzki in The Teddy Bear?
What is a morbid fear of heights called?
Which word was used to describe court ladies?
What is the name of alumina, the mineral hardest after diamond?
What is the name of the smallest bird?
Who is the author of the poem 'What the elephant has seen'?
On what occasion were the words "It's a small step for man, but a big one for humanity" uttered?
What does 'bis dat qui cito dat' mean?
What is the French name for a lamp cover?
In which river do the fish sing in Arkady Fiedler's novel?
In which century did Offenbach compose the operetta 'Beautiful Helena'?
How many rivers are in the fountain in Piazza Navona in Rome?
Which drink is the samovar used to prepare?
What is the name of the honorary degree awarded by universities?
The ore of which metal is sphalerite?
How often does the EU presidency change?
Which Tsar of Russia was Stefan Batory at war with?
What is the name of the watertight circular window on the ship?
What is the name of the tactic of naval warfare involving the tacking of ships and the fighting of crews?
What news station did Ted Turner set up?
What is the deer antler called in hunting dialect?
Which seasons does April interweave?
Are leukocytes white blood cells or red blood cells?
The German town that was the meeting place of the victorious three in 1945 is...?
"Today's doctor is the doctor of rich people" - from which novel does this quote come?
What was the name of the Swiss psychiatrist who introduced the concepts of introversion and extroversion?
On which river is the US capital Washington DC located?
Antonovka is a variety of which fruit?
What was the name of the fascist party formed in Spain in 1933?
Is Kindziuk a regional sausage or a plant?
In Scandinavian mythology, what were the names of the armed virgins, handmaidens of the god Odin, who heralded warriors' death on the battlefield?
What is the name of Szymanowski's villa in Zakopane?
What term do we use to describe the killing and eating of individuals of the same species?
By which sea is the city of Lübeck located?
Did Archimedes die a natural death?
What is the Latin name for an official reminder of financial arrears?
What is the name of the samurai code of honour?
Has a Polish woman ever been Miss World?
From which part of the habit is the Capuchins named?
The jersey in which colour is worn by the Tour de France race leader?
Who painted the curtain for the theatre in Kraków in 1894?
"It is sweet and honourable to die for the fatherland" - who is the author of these words?
Italian, Peking - which vegetable is it?
What is the Russian name for a shirt popular especially in the 19th century?
What was a paid dance partner in entertainment venues called?
After the 1969 moon landing, did the Americans land there again?
In which country is Calderon's play 'Life is a Dream' set?
What is the Greek name for the art of litigation?
What did John Dunlop invent in 1888?
Which city is the film 'Tonight the City Will Die' about?
Whose seat was Parnassus?
The Côte d'Azur is located on the territory of which country?
In French and German, what do we call surrounding meat in egg and breadcrumbs?
What was the name of the German philosopher, author of the 'Critique of Pure Reason', who lived in Königsberg?
What is the Greek name for the branch of physics dealing with sounds?
Which astronomer is the airport in Wrocław named after?
What is the name of a pocket watch chain?
Which plant was dedicated to Apollo, symbolising glory?
What is the Polish name for NATO?
What is the French name for an obstacle course?
The Masai are a people living on the border between Kenya and which country?
Who was king of Poland at the Battle of Plowce in 1331?
What is garden goldenseal otherwise known as?
Are the Przewalski's horse and the Polish horse the same thing?
Is the word half a numeral?
Under which Polish king did the Kościuszko Uprising break out?
Who was the serpent in paradise?
Which poet is the author of the poetry collections 'Blue Almond', 'Pink Magic'?
What was the name of the island where the Count of Monte Christo found the treasure?
In the Catholic Church, what is the name of the decorative Easter candle?
What colour is the spring snowflake flower?
In which Polish mountains is the Murowaniec mountain chalet located?
What is the name of the highest peak in the Bieszczady Mountains?
"Yes, revenge, revenge on the enemy, with God and if only in spite of God" - who utters these words in the third part of Adam Mickiewicz's "Dziady"?
"Kapuscinski's 'Shakhinesh' tells the story of which country?
From which country does the fast ballroom dance paso doble originate?
Who captured Persepolis in 334?
Please complete the adage: an eye for an eye, ...?
Are porthole and porthole the same thing?
Which of the four planets closest to the Sun has the greatest mass?
What is the official language of San Marino?
What is the name of the direction in the theory of cognition according to which the main mode of cognition is intuition?
What was the name of the witch in 'With Fire and Sword'?
What is the French name for a street antiquarian?
Is tuna a marine or freshwater fish?
The OAS is a secret French organisation in which African colonial state?
In which novel by Eliza Orzeszkowa is the love between Jan and Justyna the main plot?
How many islands are included in the Pelagian Islands, which belong to Italy?
Who built the labyrinth for the Minotaur?
Irina, Masha, Natasha or Olga - what was not the name of one of Anton Chekhov's sisters?
In which European capital does Big Ben measure the hours?
What was the name of the author of the book 'The Name of the Rose'?
What is the name of the collar fastened at the back worn by the clergy?
Please give the name of the actor playing the role of Lucjan Mostowiak.
What is the name of the mausoleum in Paris where Marie Skłodowska-Curie, Voltaire, Victor Hugo, among others, are laid to rest?
Which French actress gave up her career in 1975 to set up a foundation for the protection of endangered wild animals?
What was the name of the writer Herling-Grudzinski?
What is the name of an electronic lamp containing three electrodes?
What is the name of an Indian boat hollowed out of a single piece of wood?
Which animal entwined the staff of Asclepius, god of the art of medicine?
Who invented the perpetual motion machine?
Which planet orbits at a greater distance from the Sun than the Earth - Mars or Venus?
What is the Greek name for a native, an indigenous inhabitant of some lands?
The Goethe Institute's task is to popularise which language and culture?
In which city can we walk down Piotrkowska Street?
Do storks eat mice?
In which country does the San River have its source?
What was the surname of Frodo and Bilbo, characters in Tolkien's trilogy?
In which year did the first Silesian uprising take place?
What instrument does the flute player play?
In which country was the suffragette movement founded in 1848?
Which Greek titan swallowed his descendants in fear of losing power?
Which peninsula separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Atlantic Ocean?
"A song is good for everything" - which cabaret performed this song?
What is the name of the Muslim cleric who calls for prayer 5 times a day?
How many legs do insects have?
In which city is the International Labour Organisation located?
What is the name of the main square in Venice?
What is the official language in Nicaragua?
What instrument did Johann Sebastian Bach play?
Is cottonseed oil edible?
What can be done to repay the favor?
In which city is the Maracanã football stadium located?
Which African country is the most populous?
Who, according to the proverb, burns in the old cooker?
How many letters are in the classical Greek alphabet?
In which century was Austria-Hungary founded?
Kalwaria Zebrzydowska is home to the monastery of which order?
What is the name of the strong narcotic and the main character in the drama; the word comes from Greek?
Is a muffin an item of clothing, a type of game or a cake?
Is Coco the real name of Chanel?
What is the alliance of Australia, New Zealand and the USA called?
Which actress played the lead role in the series 'Life on the Spillway'?
What type of numerals are: "first", "second"?
What is the name of the room at Wawel Castle where the ceiling is decorated with coffers with human heads?
In which year was the Kingdom of Poland, also known as the Congress Kingdom, established?
Bellona was the Roman goddess of what?
What is the name of the platform or basket placed on top of the mast?
What is the name of a Brazilian musical style containing elements of samba?
In which country is The Economist magazine published?
Was Diego Velazquez a Dutch or Spanish painter?
What is the name of the beautiful gypsy girl, the title character of Georges Bizet's opera?
What is the name of the American actress, Woody Allen's former partner, who played the title role in Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby?
The Cracow Rondel is the name of which historic building in the city?
What is the name of the highest male voice?
The shape of which mathematical figure are pyramids?
In which city in Poland was the Radium Institute established on the initiative of Marie Skłodowska-Curie?
Polish jazzman Adam Makowicz is a trumpeter, pianist or violinist?
Which punctuation mark distinguishes quotations in the text?
Are there trams running in Poznań?
What colour is the cross on the back of the crossbill spider?
In which year was the so-called 'Silent Sejm' held?
In which country is Serie A played?
Which city did Sherlock Holmes live in?
How many vowels are there in the word voiced?
Is an oryx an antelope, a dog or a cat?
What sport did Szozda practise?
Does the fir tree shed its needles for the winter?
How many times in the 20th century have the Olympic Games not been held?
In which country was Albert Einstein born?
What is the Greek name for a pressure measuring device?
What is the Italian name for the sailing and rowing competitions?
In what year did the US officially enter the war?
What is the French name for a foot, nail care treatment?
What was the real name of silent film star Pola Negri?
What is something that was and is not written into?
What did the magpie weigh in the children's poem?
What is the name of the honorary flag assistants?
Is tumulus a cloud or a barrow?
Does the Highway Code provide for exceptions to the use of seat belts?
Mahatma is a title given to eminent spiritual leaders given in which country?
Which two countries were linked by a bridge over the Sound in 2000?
What is the name of the city that is the capital of Thailand?
What river flows through Jelenia Góra?
In what language was Warszawianka written in the original?
Up to how many years is schooling compulsory in Poland?
Whose life is the book 'Moonwalk' describing? "Moonwalk"?
The eruption of which volcano destroyed ancient Pompeii in 79 AD?
How many arms do squid have?
Does an amoeba have a shape?
Is the eyepatch a venomous snake?
A variety of which fruit tree is the kronsel?
Which river is longer: The Amazon or the Mississippi?
Getting a watermelon means what?
What was the name of the lion from 'The Chronicles of Narnia'?
What number does LX stand for?
Who is the head of state in Ireland - the Prime Minister, the President or the Queen?
Is Camorra the name of the Italian or Spanish Mafia?
Who played the role of Tom in 'Turned Back'?
What animals are associated with rococo singerie motifs?
How many were great in the film's title?
What does the phrase 'pro publico bono' mean in Latin?
What is the Latin name for a secret political envoy?
When do we celebrate Polish Army Day?
What kind of texts are diarists?
In which century did Kepler formulate the three laws governing the motion of the planets?
In which century did Hans Christian Andersen create?
What was the name of the confectionery in Kraków where the Zielony Balonik cabaret operated in 1905-12?
Who is the director of the films 'Funeral of a Potato', 'Sabre from the Commander'?
What is the name of the index of the largest companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange?
Did the German state join the League of Nations after the First World War?
What were the names of the characters in the 1939 film The Vagabonds?
How old is the oldest teenager?
What is the name of the founder and leader of the Rolling Stones band?
On which peninsula is the European part of Turkey located?
Was Händel a peer of Johann Sebastian Bach?
What is the name on the cards for giving up further bidding?
Under which ruler did Gall Anonim write his chronicle?
Is pertussis an infectious disease?
What names did the French actor Belmondo bear?
What is the solemn introduction to a piece of legislation called?
What were the Soviet labour camps called?
What is the Latin name for a shop selling old books?
Wladyslaw Baka and Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz served as president of which bank in different years?
What is the sum of the digits of the year of the Battle of Grunwald?
What was the name of the first commander of the elite assault unit GROM?
What was the name of Queen Elizabeth II's father?
What is the name of an aircraft designed to take off and land on water?
What is the name of the scene interjected into the action that disrupts the chronology?
What is water in the solid state called?
In which country was Greta Garbo born?
In which city can we visit the Namiestnikowski Palace and Ujazdowski Castle?
Can the area of a figure be expressed as a negative number?
How many times did Jesus fall during the Way of the Cross?
Did Joan of Arc come from Orléans?
What was the name of the king of Israel, Solomon's father?
What electrical charge does a positron have?
In which country is the musical 'Evita' set?
Ildefrans are sheep, cows or horses?
Benedykt Korczynski, Anzelm Bohatyrowicz - are these characters from which book?
What is the name of an Australian bagger whose favourite delicacy is eucalyptus?
Vistula Spit, Lebsko Spit or Hel Spit - which one separates the Bay of Puck from the open sea?
How many horsemen can be seen in Alexander Gierymski's painting 'Insurgent Patrol'?
Who, according to the proverb, never pours from empty?
In which town in Greater Poland did a student strike against the Germanisation of school take place in 1902-03?
What sport does Marcin Gortat play?
What is the activity of combining quicklime with water called?
Is Turandot a Chinese princess or a Tatra prince?
For how many months of the year is the Little Bear visible in the Polish sky?
In which city did Zbyszek Cybulski die?
In which city is the Tytus Chałubiński Tatra Museum located?
In which city is the main action of the novel 'The Doll' set?
From which side does the daytime breeze blow: inland or seaward?
What is the title of the first book of Pan Tadeusz?
What field of art does Wilhelm Sasnal practise?
What is the name of a town in Switzerland and a fodder plant?
What pseudonym did Stanislaw Mackiewicz use?
What love never rusts?
Who is the author of Antigone?
What was the surname of the title character in Adam Mickiewicz's poem "Pan Tadeusz"?
A2, A3, A4 - which of these sheets of paper has the smallest dimensions?
During the reign of which French ruler did the Empire style emerge?
Are barracudas predatory or herbivorous fish?
What is the name of actor Jan Nowicki's son, also an actor?
During which uprising did a unit of Kosciuszko soldiers assist the regular army?
To which country does Norfolk Island, located in the Pacific Ocean, belong?
In which light-related unit are the vast distances between stars measured?
What is the name of a film about the time of the conquest of the Wild West?
Was the Polish 303 Squadron a bomber or a fighter squadron?
Do penguins live in Africa?
What is the name of the coniferous tree that grows mainly in California and Oregon?
What is the name of the carnival day on which doughnuts are eaten?
What fish did the fisherman in the novel 'The Old Man and the Sea' catch?
What was the name of Admiral Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar?
Was Dr Murek a doctor?
In which century did Edvard Munch paint the painting 'The Scream'?
What is the name of the second deepest lake in the world located in Africa?
Was the Marquise de Pompadour a favourite of Louis XV or XVI?
Did the convener make church bells?
Do sparrows build nests?
Which Tsar of Russia was canonised by the Orthodox Church in 2002?
In which years of the 19th century did the Congress of Vienna meet?
What did the abbreviation CK stand for in the name of Austria-Hungary?
Podiebrady is it a Czech, Slovak or Austrian spa?
How many terms did Margaret Thatcher serve as Prime Minister?
Which planet in the solar system is called a red planet?
Who is the author of the book 'King Matt I'?
Konstantinos Karamanlis and Kostis Stefanopulos were the presidents of which country?
Did the creator of the Marconi radiotelegraph receive the Nobel Prize?
How high is Sněžka above sea level?
What was the inscription on the gates of the German extermination camps?
Which lizard family are masters of camouflage?
Which colour is the bicycle on the road sign marking the cycle path?
Which animal is the symbol of Rome?
Which army emerged victorious from the First Punic War?
Is taffeta a silk or cotton fabric?
What was the name of the light cavalry founded by Jozef Lisowski in the early 17th century?
Is iridium a metal alloy or an element?
To know what's going on with everyone is to keep your hand in...?
How many electrodes does a transistor have?
In which Warsaw park is the Palace on the Water located?
Which Polish actress founded the Despite Everything Foundation?
From which church is the bugle call played on Polish radio?
Is the chimpanzee a great ape?
How many concave angles can a quadrilateral have at most?
In which year did Tadeusz Kościuszko take the oath of office in the Market Square in Kraków?
Whose bitter enemy was Cato the Elder?
What is the name of Mexican agave vodka?
Against whom did Ladislaus Varna set out on his last expedition?
Alabaster is a white, fine-grained variety of which mineral?
Which planet were Galileo probes sent to inspect?
In which city was the peace ending the Polish-Swedish war concluded in 1660?
Who won the Russo-Japanese War of 1904 and 1905?
In which country was a gold coin called a doubloon minted from the 16th century onwards?
What is the title of a Polish aviation magazine founded in 1930 that still exists today?
Of the fourteen eight-thousanders, ten are in the Himalayas, and where are the rest?
In what month was Gretel due to get married?
Are proteins the building blocks of animal organisms, plant organisms or both?
How many parts does the suit consist of?
Who introduced the New Deal reform programme in the USA?
Of the three rivers: the Rhone, the Seine or the Loire - which is the longest?
Klezmer is the colloquial term for musician or itinerant actor?
Who designed the first steel bridge over the Vistula in Warsaw?
Which bird, the symbol of knowledge, was also the symbol of Athena?
Who founded the Congregation of the Missionary Sisters of Charity?
What was the name of a German prisoner of war camp for officers during the Second World War?
What is the woodruff from 'Pan Tadeusz': a linen, a plant or a musical instrument?
What is the process of voice pitch change in adolescent boys called?
By which sea is Finland located?
Is chablis a white wine or a red wine?
In which country are the ruins of Machu Picchu located?
What is the name of the Polish rock band in which Artur Rojek was the vocalist?
What was the name of the actor playing the role of Neo in 'The Matrix'?
Which number is bigger: a million million or a thousand billion?
Which female voice is lower: alto or contralto?
In which city was Poland's first stock exchange established in 1818?
What is four raised to the cube?
Which country is the author of the Moomins books from?
What is the name of the curve that is the graph of the quadratic function?
What is the pope's term of office called? The word comes from the Latin.
At what age did Alfred Nobel die?
Which river is Przemyśl situated on?
In which century did the Second International establish May 1 as a labour holiday?
The miner Bulandra, the blacksmith Karlik, the warrior Zeflik - are these characters from the fairy tales of Gustav Morcinek or the Brothers Grimm?
What was the name of the author of the novel Dead Souls?
On the anniversary of the liberation of which concentration camp is International Holocaust Remembrance Day observed?
'Our merry apocalypse' is a selection of essays by a Polish philosopher. Which one?
Which speciality doctor treats heart disease?
What is the French name for the body of a car?
What is the title of Joanna and Krzysztof Krauze's film based on the life of Poland's first Roma poet?
What is the name of the director of the films 'Wall Street', 'The Doors', 'Born Killers'?
Whose wedding appears in the title of Mozart's opera?
How does a roof repair and roofing craftsman cover himself in German?
What is the name of the department at the university covering the study of the language and literature of Albion?
What is the name of the blue flowering weed found in cereals?
Are herbicides insecticides or herbicides?
Was the act of surrender after the Warsaw Uprising signed in Warsaw?
A migraine is severe and sudden pain in which part of the body?
What is the name of the actress who played the role of Anna German in the TV series?
What is the name of Queen Elizabeth's great-grandson, son of Prince William and Duchess Kate?
The queen snake is a species of which insect?
Where did the idea of the Olympic Games come from?
Which work by Jan Kochanowski contains the words: "Ye who rule the common thing"?
What is the basic SI unit of temperature called?
Which weapon was used for the first time in the Battle of the Somme?
Has the position of shogun, military governor, been subject to succession since the 12th century?
Who is the creator of Programme Three's Hit List?
In Jan Brzechwa's poem 'Entliczek, pentliczek', there was a basket on a table with an apple in it. Who lived in the apple?
What is the name of the inventor of the lightning rod?
How many years did the Jagiellonian dynasty reign in Poland: around 150, 180 or 250 years?
How did Heracles put the Nemean lion to death?
Dysgraphia is a disorder of which skill?
In what year did Winston Churchill first become Prime Minister?
Volhynia is in Lithuania, Ukraine or Belarus?
Which city is the capital of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship?
How many hectares is a square kilometre?
Is there a world championship in cycling?
Which city was home to the Government in Exile until 1990?
One hectare - how many acres is that?
Which country is Andrea Bocelli from?
Who was the creator of the chariot of Helios, the armour of Ares, the arrows of Eros?
Which country was Remarque, author of the novel 'The Arc de Triomphe', from?
Were Mark Antony and Cleopatra married?
Which city is the capital of Colombia?
What do we call a sudden, severe headache?
Which EU country has the largest surface area?
What is the oldest part of the Talmud called?
Please quote the first words of the British anthem in Polish?
Which Krakow cabaret was Piotr Skrzynecki associated with?
Which number is larger: the square root of 9 or the cube root of 27?
What is the French term for an artist's first public appearance?
In songs, what is the section of text and melody that repeats after each stanza called?
In which city does the route of the Stations of the Cross follow the Via Dolorosa?
What was the name of Agamemnon's wife?
In which city is there a fountain with a peeing boy?
A cyclist, a trumpeter and an astronaut all bear the same name - which one?
Who was Klara from Revenge in love with?
Were FIAT cars manufactured in Poland before the Second World War?
What is the Greek name for the universal act of grace?
The dark side of which celestial body did Pink Floyd include in their album?
What was the name of the writer and philosopher, author of the poem 'Winnie the Fatalist and his master'?
Which saint helps you find lost items?
Who sings the song "Eurydice dancing"?
During World War II, what were Polish newspapers published with the approval of the occupying forces called?
Is the British national anthem also the anthem of Australia?
In which century did the French philosopher Denis Diderot live?
What is the name of Venezuela's capital city?
What is the name of Canada's currency?
What is the name of the former cattle harness and bondage?
In which century did St Bernadette live?
Is a serviette a type of cabinet or table?
Is vaulting - acrobatic exercises on a galloping horse - a sport?
What is the name of the potatoes cut into strips and fried in oil?
What feast takes place during the octave of Corpus Christi in Krakow?
What province is Ruciane-Nida in?
What was the name of the main character in the novel 'Wuthering Heights'?
Did the May 3rd Constitution introduce hereditary succession to the throne?
Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease?
Who was running Wokulski's shop?
Which capital letter of the alphabet stands for Newton's constant of gravity?
A decade - how many years is that?
In which province is Zamość located?
Who is the leader and soloist of the band Wilki?
Is drabant an old Polish dance?
Who in Greek mythology stole fire from the Olympian gods?
Promil - what part of the total?
Whose wife was Bona Sforza?
How many times has the World Cup been held in France?
Fisz and Emade are contemporary music makers, the sons of which artist?
Using the seeds of which plant can you identify the princess?
Which canal connects the Aegean Sea to the Ionian Sea?
On which ocean are the Azores located?
Who was Leszek the White to Konrad Mazowiecki?
Which Polish goalkeeper stopped England?
1246 is an even number?
What is the name of the Christmas mass?
What is the name of the gondoliers' song?
In which country in the Po delta is the city of Ferrara located?
In which Swiss town did John Calvin spend the last 20 years of his life?
In which century did the first breaking of the Sejm by liberum veto occur?
Under what name did the events in France in 1871 go down in history?
How many weight categories exist in sumo?
Which element has the symbol B?
What is closer to the body than a dress according to the proverb?
Who was Alice in Wonderland chasing when she fell into the burrow?
Does Mars have an atmosphere?
In which month did the mass protest of the workers take place in Poznan in 1956?
Which city was the seat of the Austrian authorities in Galicia after the first partition of Poland?
Which planet in the solar system shines with its own light?
What was Lot's wife turned into?
What term from Greek is used to refer to the Stone Age?
What was the name of the Italian painter Modigliani?
How many times is the volume of a cone smaller than that of a cylinder with the same base?
What is the name of the filling for dumplings or pancakes? The word comes from the French language.
Expand the abbreviation "CBŚ".
With the leaves of which plant did Adam and Eve cover their intimate areas?
Which cyclist is the general director of the Tour de Pologne?
Who played the title role in the Rambo film series?
With which Greek deity was Liber, the Ancient Greek god of the harvest, identified?
In which century was Barcelona architect Antonio Gaudi born?
Whose nephews were Dyzio, Hyzio and Zyzio?
Which British writer introduced the concept of Big Brother into literature?
Which zodiac sign prevails in December/January?
What do we call the image formed when white light is split into components of different lengths?
Until what year was the so-called Little Constitution of 1946 in force?
In which age did Salvador Dali create?
How many colours does the flag of Ukraine consist of?
A black flag with a skull and two tibias - who flies such a flag?
Which country is Giorgio Armani from?
The leader of which band is Muniek Staszczyk?
Do methane, ethane, propane, butane belong to hydrocarbons?
What is the name of the Tatra pass connecting Zawrat and Krzyżne?
Calypso is a moon of which planet in the solar system?
Which novella by Maria Konopnicka featured the Mostowiak family?
Which of the Grabski brothers, Wladislaw or Stanislaw, was Minister of Finance?
In which lake district does Lake Sniardwy lie?
What is the Muslim name for God the Creator?
What else is mustard gas called?
Which country occupies 1/8 of the Earth's land area and borders 14 countries on land?
What is the Italian name for an arch resting on two supports?
Which country hosted the 2014 World Cup?
Which country occupied British-owned Singapore in 1942?
What was the name of an 18th and 19th century Spanish painter depicting the horrors of war?
What is the name of the serous membrane covering the abdominal organs?
In which European city is its oldest part surrounded by the Aurelian Walls?
What is the name of an Indian war trophy in the form of skin stripped from a skull?
What is the Greek name for an exaggerated belief in one's own worth, a mania for greatness?
Galicianisms are borrowings from which language?
What does 'Jack the Ripper' mean in English?
From which language does the abbreviation LTD for limited liability company come?
In which language did Virgil write the Aeneid?
The heroine of which novel by Makuszyński is Ewa Tyszowska?
According to the Arthurian legends, what was the name of King Arthur's wife, Lancelot's beloved?
What is the name of the famous satirist Laskowik?
What was the name of the Roman philosopher, Nero's tutor?
Who was the last president of Czechoslovakia?
What musical instrument does Bill Clinton play?
Do penguins have wings?
Enduro is it a car rally or a motorbike rally?
What was the slender jug with vertical handles called in ancient Greece?
The life of which man is the title of one of Mikołaj Rej's works?
In which Italian city is there a statue of Marcus Aurelius?
In which Italian city is the so-called leaning tower, the bell tower of the local cathedral?
What is the name of the hunchbacked jester, the hero of Verdi's opera?
Do we bake or fry the fava beans?
To the history of which city is the legend of the Golden Duck linked?
What was the name of the bard of Apollo's oracle?
In which city did the blue trams that Maria Koterbska sang about run?
Which director's wife is actress Emmanuelle Seigner?
What is the name of a pool without a bow and also a multi-car collision?
Which city was the main port of ancient Athens?
To whom did the Delphic oracle prophesy that he would kill his own father and marry his mother?
How many official languages are there in Belarus?
Which goddess was born from the sea foam?
What colour is Winnie the Pooh's mug?
What do we call a celestial body orbiting a planet in an orbit?
Is the person expressing himself colloquially using literary or colloquial language?
The Pod Buda group asked in a song not to move the capital to which city?
In which coastal town is the Polish Film Festival held?
In chess, what is a move that causes a direct threat to the king called?
Are spaniels hunting dogs?
On whom does the saying go?
Which rank is higher: colonel or commander?
In which of Molière's comedies was a statue of a commander invited to the supper?
What is the outer layer of the cerebral hemispheres called?
Dawn, Morning Star - which celestial body do these names refer to?
What is the name of the F1 race track in Lombardy?
Who played the wife of the housewife in the TV series 'Alternatives 4'?
In which city is the Hipolit Cegielski factory located?
What was the name of the Russian physiologist who introduced the term conditioned reflex?
What used to be the name of the heated iron cartridge?
Does Mount Kosciuszko in Australia measure more than 3,000m high?
Which animals do ornithologists deal with?
What did Stefan Wiechecki refer to as a 'barrel radio'?
Which religion is dominant in Romania?
What was the name of the king of Phrygia with donkey ears?
Which element has the symbol W?
How many National Parks do we have in Poland - fewer or more than 20?
What is the name of the capital of the Świętokrzyskie region?
Which strategic facility was to be captured by the heroes of the film 'Commandos of Navarona'?
What is the sum of the dots on the six faces of the dice?
In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, what was the name of the official in charge of a castle or stronghold and adjoining district?
Where does the west wind come from?
Which day is Barbórka traditionally held?
Is the synagogue a place of prayer for Protestants, Catholics or Jews?
Was Bernard Shaw the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature?
What are the names of the blue people from the children's evening show?
In which country did Queen Catherine de' Medici reign?
Which river is Plock situated on?
Is an aerostat a lighter or heavier-than-air device?
In which Italian city is the Trevi fountain located?
Anne Jagiellon completed after the death of Sigismund Augustus which investment: the bridge or the church?
At samples of which metal is a woman's head found?
Cyprus became independent before or after the Second World War?
Is barberry fruit edible?
What nationality was the woman Jesus met at Jacob's well in the Gospel according to St John?
Did Prince Joseph Poniatowski take part in the Battle of Waterloo?
What was the name of an Egyptian queen of the Ptolemaic dynasty who died in 30 BC?
Are mating dogs a northern or southern sky constellation?
What is the name of the title character in Daniel Defoe's novel, who spends many years alone on a desert island?
If I say tomorrow is Thursday, which day of the week is today?
Is paper a European or Asian invention?
What shape is the scar on Harry Potter's forehead?
Nagorno-Karabakh is the largest Armenian enclave within which country?
Did the premiere of Dziady directed by Wyspianski take place in the 19th or 20th century?
Who was to say, "And yet it moves"?
What is the name of the short allegorical story and the mathematical conic curve?
What is the official name of the dandelion?
Who, according to the proverb, does the Lord God guard?
In the Teutonic state, what was the name of the administrator of a district consisting of one or more castles and an adjoining territory?
Into which sea does the Thames flow?
Are setters a breed of hunting dog?
Through which ocean does the Gulf Stream flow?
What do we call sailing against the wind in German?
In which legal act is the capital of Poland specified?
What is the name of the object used to measure the length and frequency of an electromagnetic wave?
Etna, Stromboli, Tambora - which volcano does not rise in Italy?
Are algae eaters fish or snails?
What is the name of the indigenous people of Papua New Guinea?
Telling someone the whole truth - that's playing what cards?
Does the Rhône River flow through Switzerland?
Blackbirds are a breed of which animals?
What were some of the handicraft and artistic products that Ćmielów became famous for?
What was the river that the kitten in Tuwim's poem was full of?
From which language does the term 'surrealism' originate?
Which director has received three Oscars for Best Foreign Language Film?
Which well-known work of the Polish Enlightenment is subtitled "or the war of the Monks"?
Please give the exact date of the Soviet aggression against Poland during the Second World War.
On the territory of which province is the Kampinos National Park located?
Which instrument virtuoso is Tomasz Stanko?
In which European capital is the Champs Elysees located?
According to which property are the elements in the Mendeleev system ranked?
In which century was the Corinth Canal built?
In which city did the shell courts take place?
What is the name of the news programme broadcast on the first programme every day at 7.30pm?
Which two fundamental styles are distinguished in wrestling?
In which year did Wanda Rutkiewicz become the first European woman to conquer Mount Everest?
In which country was Szczecin located in 1938?
On which continent does the raccoon rodent live?
How many players does the water polo team have?
Are blackbirds and corsairs the same thing?
How many stars appear on the flag of Cuba?
Who, according to the proverb, should not be called out of the woods?
Is the Augustow Canal longer than 100 km?
In which mountains in Poland are marble deposits found?
What is the name of the tree in the pine family that sheds its needles for the winter?
Apart from Mozart and Beethoven, who were the three Viennese classics?
Do black swans exist?
What colour is the table in the children's enumeration "Entwine Pentel"?
What is the name of the four-time Olympic walking champion?
To how many times a piece according to the proverb?
Which part of Pinocchio's face changed appearance when he lied?
Gibraltar is an overseas territory of which country?
In which ocean is the island of Ceylon located?
How many Polish cities have two metro lines?
In what language did Horace and Virgil write?
Which Israeli king captured Jerusalem in the 10th century BC? Jerusalem?
Was the musket classed as a white weapon?
Who is the author of the painting 'The Hanging of the Sigismund Bell'?
What is a significant increase in the value of securities on the stock market called?
Did Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz take part in the Kościuszko Uprising?
What is good parenting called in German?
To which country does Corsica belong?
What, apart from the head, is a school excuse?
In which city is the student club Hybrydy based?
What is the name of all the small aquatic organisms floating passively in the depths of the oceans and seas?
On top of which mountain does Cordian deliver his monologue?
'Battleship Potemkin' is a silent or sound film?
What current state was once called the Union of South Africa?
Which pedal in the piano is used to extend the sounds?
What is the Latin name for the right of a single MP to break off the Sejm?
What was the name of the belt of fortifications built after the First World War in north-eastern France?
A formicarium is a container for observing which animals?
In which year was the liberum veto abolished?
How many cubic cm fit into a cubic metre?
What is the name of the peninsula separating the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea?
What language is spoken in Mexico?
What is the name of the city which, according to legend, was supposed to have been founded by Wars and Sawa?
How many years has Prohibition been in force in the USA?
How many seeds does a date palm fruit have?
Is the game of sudoku a Japanese invention?
What is the name of the oldest thermoplastic from which photographic film is made?
What is the name of the hand tool for cutting grass and grain?
The film Revenge of the Sith is about the Knights of the Round Table or the Jedi Knights?
What is the last letter of the Greek alphabet called?
Do frogs belong among the vertebrates?
How many chambers does the Russian parliament consist of?
What was the temporalik used for?
Which singer launched the hits 'Poker face', 'Paparazzi'?
Who is the author of the political comedy entitled. "Return of the MP"?
A wreath made from the leaves of which bush contains the Scout cross?
In which year did the Czech monk Gregory Mendel live?
Who granted the privilege of Kosice to the nobility in the 14th century?
The court painter of which English king was Hans Holbein's son who lived at the turn of the 15th century?
What is the name of the eponymous police lieutenant played by Telly Savalas?
Is Genesis the Book of Genesis or the Book of Exodus?
Which vegetable is the basic ingredient in burrito stuffing?
Which Warsaw castle is linked to the legend of the golden duck?
What is the name of the tune played every hour from the tower of St Mary's Church?
In what metre are waltzes composed?
Was El Greco of Greek descent?
What was the name of the Egyptologist who found Tutankhamun's tomb?
Which modern European country is ruled by King Harald V?
What is the name of the fabric derived from the Syrian capital?
With which mountains are the stories of Liczyrzepa associated?
Who tells the old story in a scout song?
Is France's Libération a daily or a weekly?
Which American city is located in the District of Columbia?
The protagonist of which novel by Witold Gombrowicz is Professor Pimko?
In which century was the first Great Pardubice held?
Which country does Hawaii belong to?
What is the name of the beheading machine?
Cyclamen is Polish for which flower?
What do we call a fashion magazine in French?
What is the title of the oldest Polish women's magazine?
For what reason are state flags lowered to half mast?
As water freezes, does it increase or decrease in volume?
Which Queen of Scotland was beheaded in 1587 on the orders of Elizabeth I?
How did Jan Hus die?
In which ocean is the island of Cuba located?
What is the developmental form of insects called between the larva and the adult form?
What currency is used in India?
Is there a difference between a stanza and a stanza?
In Roman mythology, what was the name of the god of wine, the equivalent of the Greek Dionysus?
Are Cerberus and Argos the same character?
Did Italy declare war on the USSR?
Which ruler in 44 BC was stabbed in the Roman Senate?
What is the name of the basic aromatic hydrocarbon with the formula C6H6?
What is the name of the diamond-shaped noodles made from eggs, flour and potatoes?
What ecclesiastical rank did Wincenty Kadłubek have?
Does the EU support social inclusion ventures?
Which weapon should be buried ending the dispute?
Which river flows into the Vistula in Bydgoszcz?
In which year, called the Year of Africa, did 17 African countries gain independence?
What was the name of the German doctor who discovered the tubercle bacillus?
Which actress played the lead role in the film 'Farewell to Africa'?
According to the proverb, who is not so terrible as they paint him?
Where did the selfie stand in Brzechwa's poem?
Does boxwood shed its leaves over winter?
Is the title of marquis higher than that of count?
What is the name of the actor playing the lead role in the film One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest?
Which zodiac sign is the arachnid?
Does the Baltic Sea have a connection to the Black Sea?
What is the name of Europe's second longest river after the Volga?
What material was the cylinder on which the sound was first recorded covered?
Who was the author of the pre-war advertising slogan "sugar fortifies"?
From which continent do the oldest known stone tools come?
In which US state does the Kennedy Space Research Centre operate?
Decipher the abbreviation GOPR.
In which Polish town does Antałówka Hill rise?
In which novel by Victor Hugo does the Parisian streetwalker Gavroche appear?
In which century was the concept of war crimes introduced into the law and practice of war?
Who in Greek mythology was the goddess of law and justice?
On which continent is the Baribal bear found?
What is the tenth of a percent called?
Is the linnet a protected bird in Poland?
Does light in a vacuum propagate at the same speed as in air?
The baby shrew is a species of which flying mammal?
Is there rice in the Japanese dish sushi?
What colour are the glasses of an optimist?
What is the abbreviation for the French high-speed railway?
What did the odd duck turn into at the end of Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
What is the name of the smallest church bell?
What was the name of the third US president?
What is Greek for dislike of foreigners?
What is the name of the largest bell in the world?
What do we call, in Latin, the period after law school that prepares individuals for the work of a judge, a lawyer?
Who was the king of Poland on 3 May 1791?
What is the name of the supreme legislative body provided for by the May 3 Constitution?
Who is the author of the poem beginning with the verse: "There was a grandfather and a grandmother"?
The base of which navigational instrument on a ship is a cabinet called a naktuz?
On which river is Paris located?
In which city does Pole Mokotowskie extend?
In which European capital was the European Union Reform Treaty signed in December 2007?
What was the name of the ship whose commander was Neil Armstrong?
Birbant is otherwise a hulk or a miser?
Who wrote the book 'Conversations with the Executioner'?
To which country does the Costa Brava belong?
In which city is the Tygodnik Powszechny published?
What is the name of the author of the novel 'Wuthering Heights'?
The symbol of which party in the USA is the donkey?
The heroines of which novel by Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz were Jola and Julcia?
Which character in Fredro's Revenge says: "Heaven's will be done"?
Is laminate a single or multi-layer material?
What word was the solution to the riddle of the Sphinx spoken by Oedipus?
Vine snails are protected in Poland and can only be harvested in one month - which month?
What letter does Planck's so-called constant stand for in physics?
Who commanded the 10th Motorised Brigade in the September campaign?
Which Polish writer was the lighthouse at Cape Rozewie named after?
Which is bigger: a litre or one cubic decimetre?
Which sport do Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin Matkowski practise?
How many days is August?
Does the Oedipus complex occur in boys or girls?
What is the name of the mezzanine floor, the separate upper part of the high room?
On which denomination banknote does King Sigismund the Old appear?
What is the occurrence of the same element in different forms with different physical properties called?
The co-founder of which literary group was Julian Tuwim?
Au is the symbol for which element?
What flying out with a sparrow returns with an ox?
The sisters Hanna and Jadwiga are the heroines of which opera by Stanislaw Moniuszko?
What is the name of the residence near Paris whose construction was started by Louis XIII?
On which island did Napoleon Bonaparte die?
Are the Carpathians folded, logged or volcanic mountains?
What does the Latin secundo mean?
What is the name of the constellation Aquarius in Polish?
What do we call a sharpshooter in English?
What do we colloquially call a person who arbitrarily occupies a flat?
Is it possible to cross from Europe to Asia via a bridge over the Bosporus Strait?
In which century did the Romans finally destroy Carthage?
What was the name of Antek's wife from the novel The Peasants?
What letter was the first Ford model labelled with?
In which of Wyspiański's dramas does the Cheetah appear?
From which language does the word 'film' originate?
What is the acronym for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the USA?
How many parts does a sari consist of?
Can women be priests in the Anglican Church?
In which year did the Kościuszko Uprising break out?
What high Tibetan official resides in the Potala Palace?
To whom was Chopin's F minor concerto dedicated?
What is calcium called in Latin?
Woodcarving is the art of carving in which material?
In which year did Kosciuszko issue the Polaniecki Uval?
What was the name of the legendary land of gold in South America sought by the Spanish conquistadors?
Did Stanislaw Moniuszko compose cantatas?
In which country are Italian and Latin the official languages?
What is the Greek name for a panicky fear of the dark?
What does the word insurrection mean?
How did Anna Karenina the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel die?
Is Ceylon the name of the country?
Lutz, Axel, Salchow - these are terms associated with which sport?
What was the name of the Duke of Transylvania who became King of Poland?
What were the priestesses guarding the sacred fire called?
In what century did the Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa live?
The title of which drama according to superstition should not be pronounced in the theatre?
At the foot of which mountains is the Chocholowska Valley located?
What are the characteristics of the so-called white line?
In which country is Bern located?
The apostolic nuncio is the equivalent of which government official?
Which ocean pours over Africa from the east?
What does 'gloria victis' mean in Latin?
In what century was Maxwell's 'Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism' published?
Who was the Greek equivalent of the Roman Diana?
In which city in Belgium is the centre of the diamond trade located?
Which war ended with the 1921 Treaty of Riga?
Which April Fool's Day did April Fool's Day fall on this year?
Norma Jeane Baker is the real name of which actress?
What do we call, in Latin, an apprenticeship for people after law school that prepares them for the profession of judge, prosecutor?
What is the name of the lower house of the French Parliament?
What is the official language in Egypt?
1/5 - what percentage is that?
What is the name of Ireland's capital city?
What is the name of the Hutsul wind instrument in the form of a straight pipe?
How many beams does a private have on his uniform?
What is the German name for a three-barrelled hunting break-action weapon?
Which word in the sentence 'this house is tall' is an adjective?
Who took over the assets of the League of Nations, which was dissolved in 1946?
Which Beatle recorded the song 'Set my mind on you'?
Which objects appear in Salvador Dali's painting The Persistence of Memory?
What was the nickname of the robber played by Witold Pyrkosz in Janosik?
Does the Great Barrier Reef stretch along Australia's west or north-east coast?
What vehicles can be driven with a category A licence?
What is the title of the ballad that begins with the words: "Listen to the girl, she's not listening"?
What is the singular complement of the noun museum?
Is there a double bemoan in musical notation?
Complete the saying: "There is no smoke without..."?
What colour is the gemstone azurite?
What element has the symbol Ti?
The agent of which agency was played by Robert Redford in the film 'Three Days of the Condor'?
Which garment size is bigger - S or M?
What was the name of the highest military rank in Lithuania and the Crown?
What is an iron-carbon alloy with up to 2% carbon content called?
What is the common name for the calcium carbide used to produce acetylene?
The SP mark indicates the aircraft's nationality to which country?
What is the name of the oval plate on which the painter mixes the paints while painting?
What was the name of the Old Polish men's garment, the long dress worn under the kontusz?
Who in Jan Brzechwa's poem is sacrosanctly convinced that 'the ground is good parenting'?
From which city does the Czerniakowska Band originate?
In which year did Reymont receive the Nobel Prize?
What was the name of the son of Mieszko I who took over from his father?
How many chambers does an amphibian heart have?
What is the name of the largest right-bank tributary of the Warta, which flows through Lake Gopło?
The mother saved Moses by putting him in a basket and letting him go on which river?
Where, according to the saying, should words not be thrown?
How many seconds is an hour?
What is the name of a teacher, master, guide in Hinduism?
Into which river did Wanda throw herself, who did not want a German?
Towards which city do Muslims turn during prayer?
Which country did Maurice Chevalier come from?
Hebrew name meaning 'she who gives life'?
To which Polish city does the German name Breslau refer?
What colour is the most common ladybird in Poland?
What did Madej, the hero of the folk tale, do for a living?
Please name one of the world's highest hydroelectric dams on the Colorado River, near Las Vegas.
Courteous style is tact and courtesy or malice?
Which uprising was started by the so-called "Belvedereers"?
The eagle in the Polish emblem has its head turned to its right or left?
In which field of art does the prima ballerina perform?
What are the American awards called the television Oscars?
In what century was the Queen Sophia Bible published?
Who is the author of the novel 'Mr Grant's Children'?
In which lake district is the Borecka Forest located?
In which language did Jerzy Kosinski write?
Whose name is the PTTK shelter at the Morskie Oko Lake named after?
What is the conductor's baton called?
What is the conductor's baton called?
Zenit, Dynamo, Spartak are the football teams of which European league?
Who persecuted the innocent Susanna in the Old Testament?
What is the name of the Polish actress, wife of Stanislaw Dygat?
What was the nickname of General Emil Fieldorf?
Which district of Warsaw has the same name as one of the European capitals?
In which century did the Pugachev uprising take place in Russia?
What is the final period of the Stone Age called?
Is Robert Zimmermann the real name of Sting or Bob Dylan?
In what language is the Vulgate written?
Which endocrine gland secretes melatonin?
Who is the author of the ballad 'Świtezianka'?
Who played the role of the working woman in the TV series 'Forty-year-olds'?
What was the occupation of Shrovetide, one of the dwarfs in the fairy tale 'O dwarfs and orphan girl Marysia'?
What is collected when we put together grain to grain?
In which century did the Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian create?
Is stevia a sweet or salty tasting plant?
Please provide the names of the main couple around whom the plot of 'The Deluge' revolves?
From which country's cuisine did sushi originate?
Jelitkowo and Brzeźno are the districts of which Polish city?
What was the name of the author of the phrase "To your health"?
What is the complement of the word cocoa?
What is the name of the Jewish tombstone?
What sport did Steffi Graff play?
What is the name of a former long-barreled hunting weapon, now used as equipment in athletics?
On the territory of which countries does the Hindu Kush extend?
Which ocean does Kenya lie on?
From which continent do guppy fish originate?
Under which French king is The Three Musketeers set?
Sasha, Pchełka, Anita - these are the protagonists of which play by Janusz Glowacki?
What, in French, is the Prime Minister's programme speech called?
Which bird was "thinking of Sunday, and on Saturday they beheaded him"?
What was the name of the instructor at the Warsaw Officer Cadet School, the leader of the conspiracy that led to the outbreak of the November Rising?
Was Petronius from Quo Vadis a historical figure?
Has Daniel Olbrychski starred in all the film adaptations of Jerzy Hoffman's Trilogy?
Which day is longer: the stellar day or the mean solar day?
In which century did Wit Stwosz carve the Marian altar?
What is the name of a division of the nucleus in which there is no change in the number of chromosomes?
What is the name of the country through which Asia's longest river, the Yangtze, flows?
How many popes were named Urban?
What is the name of the presider at prayer in the mosque?
From which drama is the quote: "The peasant is power and basta?".
What unit in ancient Rome was divided into 12 ounces?
In which country did the July Revolution, the so-called 'three days of glory', take place in 1830?
What was the name of President Narutowicz's assassin?
Did St Peter come from Galilee or Jordan?
The letter H is the abbreviation for which country in international traffic?
What is the name of a river valley with a narrow bottom and steep, rocky slopes?
What literary period does Eugene Onegin come from?
In which city does the Forest Opera House, a festival venue, stand?
What is the French name for a sofa shaped like an elongated armchair on which you can rest in a semi-reclining position?
Alexander Walewski's mother was Maria, and who was the father?
Who died being stabbed in the heel by Paris with an arrow?
During which war is the novel Columbus set?
Did the Big Three at Potsdam perform in the same line-up as at Yalta?
Belle époque is the period before or after the First World War?
Is a yurt a tent of nomadic peoples of Asia or Indians?
Who is entitled to the courtesy title of magnificence?
What do we call our 50th wedding anniversary otherwise?
The image of which king of Poland appears on the 500 zloty banknote?
Did children take part in the crusades?
What is the Latin name for a list and correction of errors, spotted after printing?
In which century did the art déco art direction take place?
In which city was Jan Kazimierz University located before the war?
What is the name of the missed shot, as well as the prison?
How much is 45 - 15?
How many years is the term of office of the President of the Swiss Federation Council?
Do chimpanzees and gorillas have a tail?
What is the current name of the ancient city of Byzantium?
What is the name of the Polish director, Jadwiga Barańska's husband?
In which town did Juliusz Kossak live and die?
Are Pippin, Sam and Merry hobbits or elves?
From which dynasty did Osman I, Suleiman the Magnificent come?
A young farm animal and a pulling candy is...?
What year was the 150th anniversary of the January Uprising?
Who should be listened to according to the Roman saying "audiatur et altera pars"?
What was Gervase's rapier called?
Is chad carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide?
Which continent is closest for a resident of Madagascar?
Which animals in the novel 'Dracula' are called children of the night?
What was the name of the famous queen of Babylon, known for her hanging gardens?
In which city did Madame Tussaud's establish a wax figure gallery?
What colours appear on the flag of Greece?
What is the name of the mountain range that lies on the border between France and Spain?
Who wrote the novel Above the Niemen?
A cavalry rank is equivalent to what rank in the infantry?
From which country does sarepska mustard originate?
What do miners call a worker's shift in a mine?
What is the name of a light rocket dropped from an aircraft on a parachute to illuminate a landing or firing point?
Whose skull is Hamlet holding in his monologue?
The abbreviation HDD stands for processor type or computer hard drive?
What two objects does the Warsaw Mermaid hold in her hands?
Is a mikveh a type of headgear worn by Jews?
What does the term 'vivo' mean in music?
What is the name of the craftsman who casts the bells?
The army of which country suffered defeat at Cannae in 216 BC?
What was the name of the Grand Master at Grunwald?
How many right angles can a triangle have?
What is the name of the largest living contemporary member of the cat family?
Is the Statue of Liberty more than 100 years old?
What was the nickname of the Grey Regiments soldier Tadeusz Zawadzki?
How many musicians does an octet consist of?
Is a dielectric a material that conducts electricity well?
Are there lakes in Antarctica?
How many pieces does each player have in hexagonal chess?
What was the name of the director of the films 'Teddy Bear' and 'Wife for an Australian'?
What is the name of the branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of allergies?
In which city is the Bollywood film studio located?
Kurza Stopka is the eastern wing of which Polish castle?
Kornel Makuszyński brought Koziołek Matołek to life before or after the Second World War?
Who is the author of the crime novel 'The Mousetrap'?
What is the Polish name for the thriller film genre?
What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's book 'The Transformation' turn into?
In which ancient state did a provincial administrator bear the title of satrap?
What is the name of the section of Christian writing that includes the lives of saints and legends about them? The name comes from the Greek.
Who played the lead role in the film 'Breakfast at Tiffany's'?
In which mountains does the Yeti allegedly live?
Was Mieszko II the younger brother of Mieszko I?
What is the name of American actress Warren Beatty's sister?
Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease?
What does 'verbum nobile' mean?
Did Shakespeare also create non-theatrical works?
In which country is the Order of the Elephant awarded?
Which Russian city is the largest?
Who was the father of Helen of Troy?
What was Deyna's name?
Which letter in the Morse alphabet is indicated by the three dots?
To which country does Lviv belong?
Who was the father of Queen Elizabeth I of England?
According to Hippocrates' character classification, a sanguinarian is a calm or lively person?
Please complete the proverb: "He who likes himself is..."?
With which country did Poland wage war between 1002 and 1018, ending with the Peace of Bautzen?
What does the Latin 'vice versa' mean?
In which Polish city is the Temple of Divine Providence located?
Please provide the names of Maradona.
Was the judge in Pan Tadeusz a relative of the Soplice family or the Horeszko family?
Which Spanish-speaking city in the country has the largest population?
How many stars are there on the EU flag?
Who in the Anglican Church appoints bishops and archbishops?
How many trips around the world did James Cook make?
What sports game is named after the light-sensitive membrane in the eye?
What is the name of the rodent and the control device for the computer?
How many battles at Chocim did the Poles fight against the Turks?
How many IOs have been held in Japan?
What is the name of the science dealing with Czech language, culture and history?
What part of the garment does 'rubashka' mean in Russian?
The king of which city was Egeus?
Which university in the USA is the oldest?
In which country is the city of Acapulco located?
What inscription did Staś Tarkowski carve on the rock of Kilimanjaro?
What was the name of Queen Jadwiga's father?
Something conquered with effort we say is the hard bit...?
Did Hannibal live before Christ or after Christ?
In what year was the 1st Tadeusz Kościuszko Infantry Division established?
In 1943, a conference of Allied leaders was held in Casablanca. Was Stalin there?
What does the proverb say harms beauty?
What is the English name for awarding a victory to a team or player without a fight?
What role did Janusz Gajos play in the TV series 'Czterej pancerni i pies'?
What is the name of the spa town in Kujawsko-Pomorskie known for its 'Rainbow' band?
What is the name of the actor who played the role of Iron Man?
What was the name of the English physicist who carried out the first artificial nuclear reaction, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize?
Which French marshal commanded the defence at Verdun?
Which Warsaw museum awards the Jan Rodowicz "Anoda" prize?
Is Bunraku Japanese or Chinese theatre?
On which continent is Brunei located?
Swedes are a subspecies of which oilseed plant?
Which Italian artist is the author of works such as 'Pieta', 'David'?
Are elderberries edible?
In which century did Francesco Petrarca create?
How many types of temperament did Hippocrates distinguish?
On which continent is Sudan located?
What were the names of the half-human, half-horse people living in the forests of Thessaly?
Please complete: "The grandfather spoke to the image, and the image..."?
What is the name of the pit in Katowice where 9 miners were killed during a strike in December 1981?
Who commanded the Polish army at the Battle of Olszynka Grochowska?
In which book did Niccolò Machiavelli include the words: "The end justifies the means"?
According to Polish law, can a person over the age of 70 obtain unemployed status?
What was the name of Louis XVI's wife, beheaded during the French Revolution?
At which lake does the Mice Tower stand?
Which insects transmit yellow fever?
Which Polish woman was the first to conquer the Crown of the Earth?
What colours are on the flag of Monaco?
What does ichnology study?
About which year does Sienkiewicz write in Ogniem i mieczem that "it was a strange year"?
In what century did the English writer Charles Dickens live?
What is the name of the passive, non-contractile part of the muscle that attaches it to the bone?
How many stars are on the US flag?
Abak in ancient Greece is a type of what?
What was the name of the Swiss hero Tell?
To whom, according to the proverb, does the devil sway the children?
Which ocean has the largest surface area?
The wife of which Polish king from 1402 onwards was Anna of Cilicia?
What is the name of the philosophical direction in which experience is paramount?
What do we call a simple diagnostic instrument for auscultating a patient in medicine?
What is the name of the highest peak in the Silesian Beskids?
What goes along with the promise?
What is someone born into who is exceptionally lucky?
Where was the first seat of the Grand Master of the Templar order located?
What colour is the maple leaf marking the novice driver?
What is the currency in Spain?
Did Buffalo Bill, the legendary hero of the Wild West, really exist?
A laudation may be given or delivered
What is the name of the Polish footballer who scored 4 goals in one Champions League game?
Who was the court physician to Stefan Batory and Sigismund III Vasa?
Is a pamphlet a work of praise or mockery?
In which country did the commedia dell'arte type of stage show originate?
In which city did Fryderyk Chopin's last public concert take place on 16 November 1848?
What do we call the war that ended with the Peace of Torun in 1466?
In which century was serfdom abolished in Russia?
In which month of 1945 did General Leopold Okulicki give the order to disband the Home Army?
From which dynasty did Conrad of Mazovia descend?
Who has swapped the axe for the stick?
Are harpsichord and clavichord the same thing?
How many seconds is one angular degree?
What is the chemical symbol for silicon?
Which artist performed the song 'Time like a river'?
What is the name of the canopy chair carried by the porters?
What sport does Miroslav Klose play?
What is the name of the advocates in general?
What is the square root of 64?
What did the character played by Dustin Hoffman in 'Rain Man' suffer from?
Do tapirs have trumpets?
The figure of which Greek god is represented by a statue in London's Piccadilly Circus?
Which country's flag is Freedom holding in Eugène Delacroix's painting?
From which place on Earth do all roads lead north?
What is the name of the Philistine city where Samson was killed?
In which city was the Treaty on the Establishment of the European Union signed in 1993?
What were the names of the segregated areas for the black population in South Africa?
Which city is the capital of Scotland?
In which of Słowacki's dramas does Dafnicki appear?
What does verte literally mean?
What was the name of Othello's wife?
What is the name of the room under the church floor where the dead were buried?
In which century did Franz Schubert create?
Which country was the first country visited by Tom Wilmowski, the hero of the book series written by Alfred Szklarski?
What is the name of the tape used to ride a horse on the wheel?
In which country was the title of Hero of Socialist Labour awarded from 1938 to 1991?
Is Chile a predominantly mountainous or lowland country?
Kapism is a direction in which field of Polish art?
In which German city does the Cecilienhof Palace stand?
Do the AV node and SA occur in the brain or heart?
What was the name of the female Prime Minister of Israel?
What is the title of Moniuszko's opera in which a poor highland girl falls in love with a nobleman?
Was the Olympic Stadium in Wrocław built before or after World War II?
How many performers does the sextet consist of?
What is the name of the craftsman who covers furniture with fabric?
Anatolia is the Asian part of which country?
Which Roman ruler introduced the Julian calendar?
In a nest in which tree was the nightingale lady waiting for her late husband in Julian Tuwim's poem?
What is the intermediate voice between tenor and bass?
Who is the author of the saying 'Homo sum et nihil humanum a me alienum esse puto'?
Part of which continent is the Chukotka Peninsula?
Convergence is similarity or opposite?
What was the name of the first president of the Palestinian Authority?
According to Greek mythology, how many monstrous sisters were there called Gorgons?
In which province are the districts of Grójec, Radom located?
What does the Latin phrase 'contram naturae' mean?
What did the letter T lose according to the poem 'The Abecadło'?
What is the name of the liberator of South America from Spanish sovereignty?
Is Albania located on the Balkan peninsula?
In French, what is the name of the show in honour of which actor?
What is the name of the melody played by the mechanism in clocks?
Is a sonata an instrumental or vocal piece?
What is the name of the winged horse, symbol of poetic inspiration?
In which state is Alcatraz located?
In which century did Mendeleev publish the periodic table of the elements?
Did Paul Gauguin know Vincent van Gogh?
What religious congregation did Father John Bosco found in 1859?
"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" by Alexander Solzhenitsyn describes what place?
What was the name of the writer and traveller, author of the novels 'Canada Smelling of Resin' and 'The Fish Sing in the Ukajala'?
Which country does composer Jaromír Nohavica come from?
Which European head of state is Queen Margrethe II?
Did Nicolaus Copernicus study medicine?
What is the name of one of the hills of Rome on which the seat of the President of the Republic is located?
What is the name of the ethnic group living in the Prut and Cheremosh area?
Among the Celts, what were the names of those who acted as priests, fortune tellers and doctors?
What colour are the snowdrop flowers?
How many fingers does a bear's paw have?
The Rodło symbol of the Poles in Germany contains the outline of which Polish river?
In which country did the so-called terracotta army originate?
Is Piaf a real name or a pseudonym for the famous singer?
Through which capital city does the Potomac River flow?
What did Cain do?
Where, according to the proverb, should you not put your fingers?
What was the name of the 1807 document regulating the system of the Duchy of Warsaw?
What is the name of Japan's largest island?
In which city is the headquarters of the European Space Agency located?
Which animal was tamed and then given to John III Sobieski by Jan Chryzostom Pasek?
Who is the author of the "Midsummer Song about Sobótka"?
Which Polish destroyer was sunk during the Battle of Narvik?
The words 'retinue', 'dobosz' - are they from which language?
What was the name of the Polish field hetman, commander at the battles of Trzciana and Hamersztyn?
Could it be supervisory, pedagogical or company?
Someone who changes views frequently, changes them like...?
Which Polish writer and philosopher is the author of the book "Mini-Lectures on Maxi-Cases"?
What was the name of the friend of Mr. Wolodyjowski who died with him in the rubble of Kamieniec castle?
Sayings and proverbs: what stings?
Combinatorics is the field of which science?
What is the name of the narrow strip of land at Maliakos Bay where the Greeks suffered defeat against the Persians?
How many times did Wincenty Witos hold the office of Prime Minister?
Is there an animal named basilisk in nature?
Is the Dalai Lama XIV a Nobel Prize winner?
In Hinduism, what is the name of the wife of Vishnu, goddess of happiness, mother of Kama?
In which ocean are the Japanese islands located?
Who on the farm is equal to the governor according to the proverb?
Who, according to the teacher in one of Gombrowicz's works, "the great poet was"?
Is the jackal bigger than the wolf?
Which means of payment originated earlier: coins or banknotes?
What is the name of Polish jazzman Stanko?
On which continent is The Gambia located?
In March the polar night begins at which pole?
From which island did Icarus flee on his wings?
What is the name of the largest animal in the seal family?
On which day is International Women's Day celebrated?
What is the official language in Ecuador?
Work on which film was not completed by Andrzej Munk because of his death?
What does caving involve?
What is the name of the view according to which man is the centre of the universe?
Which composer is called the 'Chopin of the North'?
Nikos Kazandzakis is the author of a novel that has been filmed and the film awarded three Oscars. What is its title?
Who wrote the novel 'Children of the Arbat'?
Is the NHL a professional hockey or basketball league?
What is the Latin name for the forced seclusion of political opponents?
What is the name of the teddy bear with the flapping ear from the popular bedtime show?
Which country was divided along the 17th parallel at the Geneva conference in 1954?
What was the name of the Polish cardiac surgeon, Professor Religa?
Are there any countries outside the EU where the euro has been introduced?
What is the name of the branch of astronomy that deals with the study of the Moon's surface?
What, according to the saying, did the turnip cling to?
Logorea is wordiness or silence?
Is it possible to draw a square and a circle with the same area using a compass and a ruler?
From which country does Roquefort cheese originate?
What colour are the almonds that symbolise dreams?
The letters of St Paul, St Peter are found in the Old or New Testament?
What is the name of the device in the camera that dispenses the light access time to the photosensitive element?
Where does the merry-go-round spin in Maria Koterba's song?
In what language do we say 'Achtung' (i.e. 'attention')?
What is the most penalty points a driver can receive for overtaking on a pedestrian crossing?
What flavour does wormwood infusion have?
Which letter in the Greek alphabet is omega?
How many altars does the Corpus Christi Day procession lead to?
Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian - the periods of which era?
Please list the first degree of variation of the adjective.
What is the name of the form of organisation of society in which women predominate?
In which coastal city can we walk along the Long Market?
In which European country besides Russia is the ruble the currency?
What is the name of the duel between the winners of the quarter-finals?
What was the three-letter abbreviation for Soviet fighter aircraft?
On which day of the week does Corpus Christi fall in the Catholic Church?
The anthem of which country begins with the words: "Forward, children of the fatherland"?
The temporary capital of which Asian country was Nanjing in the 20th century?
What was the name of Tom Sawyer's friend?
What is the name of the traditional dress of the Scottish Highlanders, the short plaid skirt?
Wife of which king was Marie Kazimiera d'Arquien, known as Marysieńka?
What is the name of Germany's capital city?
From which country does fashion dictator Christian Dior hail?
What do sailors call a wind that blows obliquely off the bow of a ship?
What is the name of the Indian boat with a timber frame, covered with birch bark, the prototype of the canoe?
How many perpendiculars does an acute-angled triangle have?
Who played the lead role in The Witcher, based on Sapkowski's book?
What nationality was Charles May?
On a multi-masted sailing ship, the foresail is the mast at the front, middle or back of the ship?
What is the name of the hero of English legends, the protector of the poor hiding in the Yorkshire woods?
How many lakes are in the Great American Lakes system?
How many syllables does the Japanese poetic form Haiku consist of: 11, 15 or 17?
Which dynasty reigned in China from the 14th to the 17th century?
If we have 11 pairs of socks, how many total socks do we have?
Which country was Edmund Hillary, the first conqueror of Mount Everest, from?
In which Sudetic mountains can you climb Szczeliniec Wielki?
Are toads protected in Poland?
What is the name of the branch of medicine dealing with immunity?
The fleet of which country defeated the so-called Grand Armada in the 16th century?
What is the name of the game of picking individual sticks from a disorderly pile so as not to move the others?
What was the name of the last king of the Piast dynasty?
What is the name of the place in court where defendants sit?
What is the name of the roster of court cases taking place on the same day after each other?
What living organisms does lichenology deal with?
Is the kestrel a bird of prey?
Please provide the plural complement of the word kobza?
What is the name of a domino dice containing no dots, with a blank field?
What is the name of the oldest Polish theatre still in operation today?
What was the name of the creator of the character Mr. Blob?
The Warsaw district of Praga is on the left or right bank of the Vistula?
On which lake is Lausanne located?
In which of Mrożek's dramas do XX and AA appear?
Does a vegetarian eat meat?
Brooklyn is a borough of which American city?
Pablo Picasso or Vincent van Gogh - which one was born in Spain?
What is the name of the country in North Africa that has its capital in Tripoli?
What, according to the proverb, can't a crow beat a raven?
What is the name of Russian President Putin?
A professor at which university was Isaac Newton?
On which continent do the two mountain ranges named after Jan Czerski rise?
What does the codename of the German action "Nacht und Nebel" mean in Polish?
On which continent do the Hutu peoples live?
From which country does the strong brandy - Metaxa - originate?
Is Latin an official language in the Vatican?
In which year did Croatia join the European Union?
What train can you get on in Maryla Rodowicz's song 'Remedium'? "Remedium"?
Is lactose a simple sugar?
Are there any buffalo still alive today?
What is the name of the saddle volleying of a galloping horse practised at a show?
Tricorn, cloche, fedora - these cover which part of the body?
Which traveller in the 15th century discovered the sea route to India?
Did Boccaccio have a chance encounter with Francesco Petrarca?
Do nightingales fly away from Poland for the winter?
In which European country is the Order of Gediminas awarded?
What was the name of the English king nicknamed Lionheart?
Who was the originator of chemical vocabulary in Poland?
What is the back of the ship called?
One rouble - how many kopecks is that?
What is the name of the customary law by which a widow must marry the brother of the deceased?
Do you need eggs to bake sponge cakes?
Ile zer ma miliard?
Where do these places occur: Ocean of Storms, Sea of Moisture, Sea of Tranquillity, Sea of Clouds?
Are cuckoos protected all year round in Poland?
What is the Greek name for bronchial thrush?
What does the Latin saying 'amor vincit omnia' mean?
In which century did the Second Vatican Council take place?
What is the name of the rock group formed by Jan Borysewicz in 1981?
What used to be the name of a lady's notebook for determining the order of dances and partners at a ball?
What nationality was Celsius?
During which war is The Adventures of the Good Soldier Švejk set?
What was the name of Jacek Kuroń's son?
How many witches predicted Macbeth's fate?
From the name of the geometric figure, what do we call a power with exponent 2?
Are malaria and yellow fever names for the same disease?
Which city hosts the festival where the Golden Shells are presented?
What is spaced running called in athletics?
Does the population of the Falklands exceed 200,000?
In what century was one of science's most important books On the Origin of Species by Charles Darwin published?
What is the official language in Iceland?
Small dumplings stuffed with chopped meat, served with broth, popular in Lithuania are...?
Which country did the painter Francisco Goya come from?
According to the title, how many incarnations did Jan Piszczyk have?
In which year did the bloody pacification of the Wujek mine take place?
Did Niccolò Paganini give concerts in Poland?
What is the Greek name for the sudden, uncontrollable fear of a larger number of people?
Favourite is the variety of which fruit?
In which city is the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea located?
Which zodiac sign bears the same name as the measuring device?
In which country did Ashoka rule?
What is the name of the Kraków hill with the Dragon's Den and the Royal Castle?
Whose wife in Reymont's 'Peasants' was Jagna?
Which Italian university did both Kochanowski and Copernicus study at?
Do ibises, storks and herons belong to the same family?
Through which sea did Moses lead the Israelites?
How many oceans surround Antarctica?
Which river is Częstochowa on?
What was the name of the Blessed Virgin Mary's father?
What part of speech are: "yesterday", "tomorrow", "loudly"?
Does the Halal cause the temperature to rise or fall?
Where is the Harbour Bridge located?
What is the Polish name for malaria?
What are the billiard balls called?
What is the name of the band formed by Jacek and Andrzej Zielinski in 1965?
What were the underground cemeteries in ancient Rome called?
Is Proxima centauri a star or a planet?
What is the name of a sweet, strong wine from the Douro Valley in Portugal?
Is Poland a member of the World Trade Organisation?
Is the Republic's flag day a public holiday?
What was the name of the author of the words: "Peaceful village, merry village! Who can give voice to your glory?"?
Which country's capital is Copenhagen?
Which female mountaineer was the first European to climb Mount Everest?
What animal is the symbol of the Tatra National Park?
Is the ladybird (God's cowbird) herbivorous or is it a predator?
Who was the leader of ancient Rome's largest slave uprising?
The Prime Ministers of which country were Neville Chamberlain and Harold Wilson?
In which city in the USA is Columbia University, one of the oldest in the USA, located?
Does Ethiopia have access to the sea?
In which discipline is the Roland Garros Tournament held?
How many trumpets brought down the walls of Jericho?
On which day do we celebrate National Education Day?
Which endocrine gland secretes thyroxine?
Giving someone something that they cannot appreciate is, according to the proverb, "casting pearls before..."?
Which insects produce propolis?
Which character by Ernest Hemingway uttered the words: "A man can be destroyed but not defeated"?
Which town did Casanova come from?
Was Henry VIII also king of Ireland?
What is the name of the short spatula used in the military?
What does 'sayonara' mean in Japanese?
On the territory of which country is the Knyszynska Forest located?
Did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Prize in person?
What is the colloquial name for the classical style in swimming?
Has a woman ever sat alone on the throne of Poland?
At what age was Walt Disney born?
Please complete: "What Johnny doesn't learn, that John..."?
What is the name of Adam Mickiewicz's youthful love?
In what century did the Battle of Acacia take place?
How many Budrys featured in Adam Mickiewicz's ballad?
In which year did the so-called republic of Pinczow exist?
Does Hungary have the Carpathian Mountains on its territory?
Were women allowed to sit on the throne of Egypt?
Which of Shakespeare's plays is set in Kronborg Castle?
What part of speech answers the question 'what does it do'?
What nationality was Marcel Proust?
What does 'vademecum' literally mean in Latin?
Are daisies protected in Poland?
Who discovered sunspots in the 17th century?
What was the name of the Polish pharmacist who developed the paraffin lamp?
Please give the abbreviation of the French international football federation?
Does the truffle fruiting body grow underground?
Please give the name of the actor who created the creation of Nikodem Dyzma, Stanislav Angel?
In which city is the Field Cathedral of the Polish Army located?
What are the names of the members of the order founded in 1155 on Mount Carmel?
In which city does the Malta theatre festival take place?
Is the anaconda a strangler?
The content of which opera by Giuseppe Verdi is the fate of the Jews seeking to break out of Babylonian captivity?
Under what circumstances does one make a true friend?
Do crampons have a spine?
In which century did the Byzantine Empire fall?
Which figures of one colour make up the marias in the card game?
Who was the author of the polychrome in Turek?
What does the lazy man sit on in Jan Brzechwa's poem?
What is the mating period of fish called?
The image of which president appears on the Purple Heart military decoration?
What was Jane Fonda's father's name?
On which river is Lowicz located?
What is the name of the section of history dealing with seals?
In which national park is the Prądnik Valley located?
What is the Greek name for the exposed part of the stage in front of the curtain?
What is the name of the portrait made by the artist himself?
Does the kinetic energy of a body in motion depend on its mass?
Is the shroud on a sailing ship one of the rear masts?
What is the name of the surgical thread made from sheep intestine?
Is Thailand an island?
In which country did Polish archaeologists discover a tomb of the Wari civilisation in 2013?
What is the name of highly ionised air in which the number of free electrons is equal to the number of cations?
What is the name of a candle holder designed for one candle, the word comes from German?
What inclinations did the dentist have in the title of Maryla Rodowicz's song?
What is thrown at the feet of the person we want to make things difficult for?
Which of Sigismund the Old's wives was Queen Bona?
What is the name of the inn in Adam Mickiewicz's ballad 'Pani Twardowska'?
Do birds called snipe live in Poland?
Which tree represents the roots of man?
Which city did a naked Archimedes run around shouting 'Eureka'?
Aaron, the first high priest was the elder brother of which prophet?
In which year did Hitler carry out the Anschluss of Austria?
In which year was the Alfred Nobel Foundation established?
Which character in 'With Fire and Sword' was in the habit of saying 'listen hadko'?
In which Polish city was the Swietokrzyski Bridge built?
Are hornets a type of large wasps or large bees?
Is Switzerland a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation?
How many male voices were matched by the voice of Stentor from the Iliad?
Kugel is one of the traditional dishes of Jewish cuisine, is this dish prepared by a kugler?
What is the name of the rubber bag filled with hot water used to warm the body locally?
In which city does Wanda's mound rise?
What is the French name for an exhibition opening combined with a meeting with the author?
To which of the basic genres of drama does 'Odprawa posłów greckich' belong?
What does the saying bake cancer mean?
Are there trams running in Szczecin?
The spouse of which prime minister was Nina Andrycz?
How many zeros does one million contain in decimal notation?
How many strings does the hammer in a piano strike at the lowest notes?
In which city do the Petronas Towers rise?
Who is the author of the Monument to the Deeds of the Uprising on Mount St Anne?
What is the French name for a merchant who deals in paintings, works of art?
Who is the author of the fairy tale 'Hansel and Gretel'?
What was Faraday's name?
"Man - God's plaything", from which writer's work is this quote taken?
In how many metres did Stanislava Walasiewiczówna win a medal in Los Angeles?
At the bottom of which sea did Poseidon live?
Which canal connects the Mediterranean and the Red Sea?
After which World War was the Central Statistical Office established in Poland?
Can turquoise be found in Poland?
In the waters of which river did John the Baptist baptise Christ?
Did Pablo Picasso ever visit Poland?
Do a brilliant and a diamond have the same chemical composition?
By Australia lies the island of Zealand or New Zealand?
LPG is a mixture of which two gases?
Did the coachman drive the quadriga while standing or sitting?
Which Polish composer is considered the founder of national opera?
In which religion is the Tipitaka the holy book?
In which city was the One WTC skyscraper built?
In which century did the Polish-Swedish war known as the Deluge take place?
What was the name of the heroine of Pan Wołodyjowski whom Zagłoba called hajduczek?
What kind of animal is Stuart Tiny, the protagonist of the book and several films?
Figures from which game did Alice see on the other side of the mirror?
Did Zygmunt Gloger, author of the "Old Polish Encyclopaedia", ethnographer and sightseer, live in the 20th century?
In which national park is Sněžka located?
What mountains dominate Chile's landscape?
For how many days can the President impose a state of emergency in Poland?
Where in the USA did Robert Kennedy die in the assassination attempt?
Chancellor of which country was Willy Brandt?
What is the name of the flag indicating the nationality of the ship?
Does the Catholic Church allow cremation?
Is Mikołaj Kossak the father or grandfather of Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska?
Which Polish king listened to Skarga's sermons?
Is acetylene a noble gas?
In which year did the Battle of Trafalgar take place?
In which country is Kilimanjaro located?
What colour were the uniforms worn by the Polish Army in France under General Haller?
What is the plant's ability to turn towards the light called?
Which country's capital is Luanda?
Lech Wałęsa, speaking in the US Congress in 1989, began his speech with the words: "We, the nation". To the text of which document was he referring?
In which country on the North Sea coast is the city of Arnhem located?
How many years did Benedict XVI's pontificate last?
What French word do we use to describe the rules of proper behaviour in company?
Which Roman emperor was to appoint his horse as senator?
What was the name of the Caruso singer?
The Two Shores Film Festival takes place simultaneously in two towns on two banks of the Vistula. One of them is Janowiec, and the other?
Under what pseudonym did Krzysztof Trzcinski perform?
Are blintzes dumplings or pancakes?
In which century was the Mohs scale, used to determine the hardness of minerals, developed?
What was the name of Pollux's twin brother?
What is the name of the Orthodox temple?
Who is the author of the historical poem 'Grażyna'?
Who wrote down for posterity the legend of Wanda who did not want a German?
What is the name of Franz Lehar's eponymous merry widow?
In which state is New England located?
To which dynasty does Spain's reigning monarch Juan Carlos belong?
On the tombstone of which writer buried in the Powązki cemetery is the inscription: "heart of hearts"?
One decagram how many grams is that?
What is the name of the largest island in the Baltic Sea?
What was the name of the eponymous maiden whose madness was described by Kornel Makuszyński?
How many islands is Venice located on - about 50 or over a hundred?
Which country's fleet clashed with the Japanese fleet at the Battle of Tsushima in 1905?
What was the name of the absentminded gentleman looking for his glasses in Julian Tuwim's poem?
In which voivodship is Słupsk located?
What is the name of the branch of geometry devoted to the study of spatial figures?
What does the Latin phrase "mea culpa" mean in Polish?
Is cannelloni Italian pasta or pizza?
Which city was the capital of the General Government?
What mountains are the summit of Broad Peak located in?
What was the title of the erotic thriller starring Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone?
What was the name of the figure gifted by Zeus with the tin containing all misfortunes?
What was the name of the American baseball player, Marilyn Monroe's husband?
Did Stefan Żeromski win the Nobel Prize for Literature?
What is the name of the author of the programme "Case for a reporter"?
Who wrote the children's song 'Locomotive'?
What do we call a musical ensemble of five instrumentalists?
To see... and die - which city is it about?
Anchovies is the French term for a dish of fish, snails or frogs' legs?
An English Scout is...?
In which country did Catherine de' Medici reign?
How many cannons did the Ordon redoubt have in Adam Mickiewicz's poem?
The president of which country was Perón?
Who is the author of the painting 'The Last Judgement' located in Gdansk?
What is the name of the smallest of Japan's four main islands?
Please state the date of the capture of the Bastille.
The workshop of which Greek god was supposed to be located in the Etna volcano?
In which forest is the January Uprising Memorial Forest located?
Did actor Leonardo DiCaprio play the role of Romeo?
Who was Nostradamus by profession?
What is the collective numeral of the number 9?
What is the name of the main character in 'The Chronicle of Amorous Incidents'?
What is the name of the geometric transformation in which the distance between each pair of points does not change?
What is the headgear of lawyers, clergymen and professors called?
Are alkanes and paraffins the same thing?
What is the name of a motorbike race held in difficult terrain?
What is the name of the smallest Roman military unit, which originally numbered 100 soldiers?
What does the word fracas mean?
Who played the title role in the film 'Zorba the Greek'?
What is the name of the element with the symbol Am?
Which Polish national park is the oldest?
What is the Latin term for a sacred place?
The Forrester family are characters in which series?
Is Polish Humanitarian Action a governmental or non-governmental organisation?
What is the name of the hill in Częstochowa on which the Pauline monastery stands?
In which year did the last space shuttle mission take place?
Is the Hajduk an outer garment from Kashubia or an old Polish dance?
What was the name of Leszek the White's son nicknamed Shameful?
On which number plate are the numbers on the yellow background: regular, antique or temporary?
What gas was the Hindenburg airship filled with during the famous crash?
Which work by Adam Mickiewicz opens with a motto taken from Niccolò Machiavelli's The Prince?
What hums in the Scout song 'A campfire burning in the woods'?
Is leprosy a disease transmitted by bacteria or viruses?
What was the name of the author of a collection of fables in 12 volumes published in the 17th century?
Into which bay does the Vistula flow?
In whose square is the Arc de Triomphe in Paris named?
Which islands are Russia and Japan competing for?
A dish of raw vegetables, unbleached linen cloth, an iron-carbon alloy - this...?
Part of which country is the province of Quebec?
Can a snake swim?
What was the name of the hen that laid the golden eggs?
What was the name of the yacht on which Teliga circumnavigated the world?
What is the name given to entering into a new marriage during the course of a previous marriage?
What was the name of the former unit of measurement of an adult's arm's reach?
Is the European Court of Auditors an EU court?
How old was the painter Władysław Podkowiński, the author of "Szał uniesień"?
What is the name of the largest snail in Poland?
Which prince according to the chronicle of Gallus Anonymus was eaten by mice?
Which America (North or South) has more population?
Goldap is located on the border with which country?
Are beatification and canonisation the same thing?
As the saying goes, we fold our hands into a clamshell. And what do we put our hands together?
Where is Raskolnikov exiled to after his confession?
Which civil war did Ernest Hemingway take part in?
What is the name of the curve described by a fixed point of a circle rolling without slippage outside another, stationary circle?
How many eyes did Cyclops have?
What is the French name for a barrage on the road built during street fighting?
What is the name of the beer plant?
Where did the first screening of the Lumière brothers' film take place?
From which country does the martial art of kung-fu originate?
111 or 112 - which of these numbers is divisible by 3?
In which year did John III Sobieski achieve victory at Vienna?
In what century was the Treaty of the Three Black Eagles concluded?
Do you use chopsticks when playing the marimba?
In the 'Tales of the Thousand and One Nights', what was the name of the vault that needed a password to open?
How many terms did George W. Bush serve as president?
Which gas conducts heat best?
Which animal do we call a truss?
At which congress was the Free City of Krakow, or the Republic of Krakow, established?
Can professional athletes compete in the Olympic Games?
How many kilograms does a litre of pure water weigh?
What is the name of the Polish general who commanded the Hungarian insurgent army in 1848-49?
Of someone seemingly strong but failing at a crucial moment, a Chinese proverb says: what kind of tiger?
Is the ludo shark a tiger or a shark?
What was the name of the Polish writer Nalkowska?
What is the name of a quartet made up of a cello, viola and two violins?
From which country does Parmesan cheese originate?
In which ocean is the island of Mauritius located?
Do axioms require proof?
What is the name of the drama in which one of the characters is a Brabantian?
How many journeys has Gulliver, the protagonist of Jonathan Swift's novel, made?
Who is the author of 'Romanticism' - the manifesto of Romanticism in Poland?
Was parchment made from animal skins or from plants?
What is the name of the actor who played Bond in the last three films?
What animals saved Rome during the Gallic invasion in 390 BC?
Who is the author of the novella 'Nasza szkapa'?
What is the name of a small wild sheep?
What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's short story 'The Transformation' change into? "Transformation"?
How much does the men's discus weigh in athletics competition?
Which country is the source of the Danube River?
How many crosses does the memorial to the shipyard workers killed in 1970 consist of?
In which field in 1919 was Woodrow Wilson awarded the Nobel Prize?
What is the name of the fundamental law establishing the basis of the political system?
Which city hosted the 1924 Olympic Games, at which the Polish team made its official debut?
In which century were the statutes of Casimir the Great written?
From which century did the official name of the Russian Empire begin to be used?
How were students or pupils at cathedral schools referred to in the Middle Ages?
What colour was the Lancaster crest rose?
Whose face did the Stańczyk in Jan Matejko's painting have?
Which country is Leonard Cohen from?
How many people make up the basic crew of an aircraft called a drone?
What was the name of the maiden with whom the bass player from Wojciech Młynarski's song 'Jesteśmy na wczasach' fell in love?
In which country are the Baconian Forest mountains located?
Jaggis, couscous, puff - types of what?
Is magnetite an iron or magnesium ore?
What were the names of the Lumière Brothers?
What was the name of the goose from the TV bedtime show who was friends with Puff?
Is the gnomon a sundial or a spirit looking after the mines?
In the delta of which river was the Rosetta stone found in 1799?
What number was designated XL by the Romans?
In which century did Mozart live?
What brand was the first mass-produced car in the USA?
What is the name of Earth's only natural satellite?
What was the name of the wife of the USSR's only president?
In which sport is Jarosław Hampel successful?
On which tree do acorns grow?
In which city in the USA was the Charter of the United Nations signed?
Which discipline do Stefan Hula and Maciej Kot practise?
What was the name of the state established by the Crusaders in Palestine and Syria?
Is lead needed for pencil production?
Does China border India?
Polesie is a plain located on the territory of three countries. Apart from Poland and Ukraine - which one else?
Which saint was declared the patron saint of environmentalists by Pope John Paul II in 1979?
In which city did Drakon rule in antiquity?
Was Alexander Gierymski's brother Nikolai a painter?
Pumpernickel is a type of what kind of bread?
The Persian Gulf is part of which ocean?
Which Polish king reorganised the Cracow Academy at the end of the 14th century?
What is the name of the unit of mass used in gemstone trading?
From which side of the world did the three kings come?
How many Parekas were there, goddesses of destiny?
In which year did the so-called Black Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange take place?
Which character in 'Lalka', the author of the diary, took part in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848?
How many daughters did Zeus have with the goddess of memory Mnemosyne?
What do we call the physical quantity that describes the place occupied by a body in space?
In which year did the Battle of Narvik take place?
What is the name of the city park that surrounds the oldest part of Krakow?
What nationality was Thomas Edison?
In which European country was a woman the first to become president?
Who was Tadeusz Kotarbinski by profession?
Is the alto sung only by women?
In which country did the Velvet Revolution take place?
Which Hun leader was called the Scourge of God?
Who is the composer of the opera 'Madame Butterfly'?
What was the name of the first balloon constructed by the Montgolfier brothers?
What is the international abbreviation for east on maps?
At what latitude does the equator lie?
Is the Wisłok River a tributary of the Vistula?
In which America do the Cascade Mountains rise?
What is the name of the chemical element whose name sounds the same as that of the gentleman burglar Lupin?
In which country are Katyn and Mednoye located?
What is the name of the cave in France where Neolithic paintings were discovered on the walls in 1940?
What vine is Cassis wine made from?
In which century did van Gogh live?
In which ocean are the islands of Bora-Bora located?
Which Greek god looked after travellers and found things?
Where did Romuald Traugutt die?
Who do Muslims refer to as giaours?
A mastectomy is the removal of which part of the body?
What affinity do Krystyna Janda and Maria Seweryn share?
What was the name of the Paris residence which was the home of the party of the Great Emigration centred around Adam Czartoryski?
In which former Soviet republic was Anna German born?
In which city is Muhammad's tomb located?
Silesia is the Latin name for which region of Poland?
What was the name of the island near which the Japanese fleet wrecked the Russian fleet in 1905?
What Indian tribe did Unkas, the protagonist of Cooper's book, come from?
Does Poland belong to the G8?
What is the name of the town where the hospital is located in the TV series "For Better or Worse"?
Which muse held no attribute?
What is the name of the main character of 'The House on the Spillway'?
What nationality was Christian Andersen?
Who, according to the proverb, is bothered by the hem of their skirt?
Which professional group is controlled during hospitality?
What is the name of Romania's capital city?
In which circle of hell are Ovid and Horace located, according to Dante?
What does a no-parking sign with a white Roman numeral one mean?
Who was Herostrates by profession who set fire to the temple of Artemis in Ephesus?
The heroine of which work by Maria Konopnicka is Marysia Kukulanka, the goose girl?
Which composer, cantor at St Thomas' Church in Leipzig, was the author of the 6 Brandenburg Concertos?
In which year was the March Constitution adopted?
Is the pistil a male or female reproductive organ?
What is the name of a sorrowful Ukrainian folk song?
In which country do the so-called Colossi of Memnon stand?
What is the name of a supporter of royal power?
In which country was the first motorway built?
Is CNN an American or British television station?
Born in Nantes in the 19th century, this French writer is regarded as a forerunner of science fiction literature. Who is it about?
In which year was Poland admitted to NATO?
At which ceremony in Rome were the words uttered: "where you Gaius, there I Gaius"?
In which city did 'The Globe' theatre operate?
Which country is director Pedro Almodóvar from?
What is the French name for the person announcing the concerts?
In which city is the Wyspiański Silesian Theatre located?
In which province is Kartuzy located?
Is Cape Acacia located in Africa or Europe?
How many sides does the cuboid have?
What is the name of the trigonometric function, the ratio of the length of the adjacent perpendicular to the length of the opposite perpendicular?
Around which city is the action of the Iliad centred?
In which Polish city is Przekrój published?
Was John III Vasa king of Poland?
What is the name of the science that studies crime as a social phenomenon?
Which is bigger: the area of New York's Central Park or the Principality of Monaco?
In which Dutch city can you visit the van Gogh museum and Rembrandt's house?
In which city was a criminal group called the Camorra established?
In which century did Emperor Henry IV travel to Canossa?
In which European city is the d'Orsay museum located?
Did Alexander of Macedon and Aristotle ever meet?
Part of which city is the district of Majdanek?
In which country is the TV series 'Allo, allo' set?
What sport is called the queen of sport?
Who commanded the Polish army in the campaign against Austria in 1809?
How many years before Orwell's book with the same title was published in 1984?
In which city is the stage of the Silesian Opera located?
In which country was Moses born?
What is the name of the white stiff cardboard; named after a town in England?
To which country does the South Sporades archipelago belong?
Does baker's yeast contain dead or live fungi?
In which century did Pakistan proclaim independence?
What was the name of the Greek muse, the keeper of history?
Which river is Gorzów Wielkopolski situated on?
Is caracena a weapon or armour?
The name of which Polish general appears in the Polish anthem?
How many lions are in the Danish emblem?
Do the laufer and the chaser move in the same way?
What pace is defined by the word largo?
Did Frédéric Chopin compose waltzes?
Which hand do you salute with in the Polish army?
Whose name is the Warsaw Theatre Academy named after?
What is the English name for a short circuit in boxing?
Part of which mountain chain are the Owl Mountains?
What kind of animal was the main character in the fairy tale 'Where's Nemo'?
Did St Peter have a wife?
What is the name of the ninth month of the Muslim lunar calendar in which fasting is obligatory?
In which ocean are the Falkland Islands located?
In what year did Christopher Columbus discover America?
On which river are Bratislava, Belgrade and Budapest located?
Who is Masztalski, the hero of the jokes - a Silesian, a Mazurian or a Kashubian?
Do tigers live in the Siberian taiga?
Pacemaker, stent - are they endo- or exoprostheses?
In which Polish town is the Mościce district located?
Which element is most abundant in the universe?
From which country did the fandango dance originate?
What is the name of the rock temple complex in Egypt relocated before the flooding of Lake Nasser?
What does the Latin word 'pater' mean?
During the reign of which king did the incorporation of Prussia take place in 1454?
Who announced that planets move in ellipses?
The violin competition held annually in Genoa is named after which violinist?
What's a fish in a fishless world?
The Nile is the longest river of which country?
In addition to the Union Jack, which state's flag includes the Southern Cross?
What animals pull Santa's sleigh?
Who were the German fairy tale writers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm to each other?
What does 'alma mater' literally mean?
From what metal were three denarii, coins worth three denarii, minted from the 14th century onwards?
The statue of which poet is located in the Krakow market square?
Which eminent scientist did the Pole, Leopold Infeld, collaborate with?
In which century did the Civil War take place?
Which sport do Vitaliy and Wladimir Klitschko practise?
In which country is the bridge over the River Kwai located?
In which century was French scientist André-Marie Ampère born?
What is the Latin name for the surrounding ditch protecting a fortress, usually filled with water?
What was the name of the first artificial satellite placed in Earth's orbit?
Where did Casimir Pulaski die?
What is the name of a money sign made of paper?
In which year did the Battle of Midway take place?
Which city hosted the 1928 Olympic Games, where Halina Konopacka won the gold medal?
Who is the author of the 'Kronos' diaries published in 2013?
What is the name of the largest depression on Earth?
What are the branches of the trachea called?
How many years is the term of office of the French President?
In which year did Stanislaw Augustus initiate the Thursday dinners?
In which country did the African National Congress fight against apartheid?
Is Raphael Santi's painting 'Madonna of the Sistine' in the Sistine Chapel?
In which country did Henryk Dabrowski form the Polish Legions?
What does the Latin 'inter arma silent Musae' mean?
Please provide both names of Mr Zagloba.
What is one of the three states of matter called in addition to solid and liquid?
Favelas are shantytowns on which continent?
Which African country borders Algeria and Egypt?
Who was called the Primate of the Millennium?
What was the name of the party whose members met in the convent of St James in Paris?
Does a prenup have to be concluded in the form of a notarial deed?
The beauty of which part of the face is enhanced by mascara?
What do we call a criminal who kidnaps people for ransom?
What is the title of the book by Stanislaw Lem on which the film 'Congress' was based?
What is the activity of removing stumps after felled trees called?
The father-in-law of which French king was Stanislas Leszczynski?
Is a canotier a hat or a tailcoat?
Is there a vice-pope position in the Catholic Church?
Can a Member of Parliament be a Senator at the same time?
Who in Greek mythology killed Hector?
In which city is the Forbidden City, the former imperial quarter, located?
Which American president appears on the one-dollar note?
What is the name of the Polish traveller who named Australia's highest peak Mount Kosciuszko?
How do we write the number 70 in Roman?
What was the name of the Nazi who suppressed the Warsaw Ghetto uprising?
Pieter Bruegel the Elder had two sons. Please give the name of one of them.
Which country is Celine Dion from?
From which country did Karen Blixen, author of the book Farewell to Africa, come from?
What was the name of the mother of Anna Jagiellonka, wife of Stefan Batory?
In which century was the element polonium discovered?
What colour are the daffodil flowers?
What destroyed the Colossus of Rhodes?
What does CMK stand for?
On which continent is the tse-tse fly found?
He lived between 1450 and 1516 and painted, among other works, the 'Ship of Fools' and the 'Garden of Earthly Delights'. What was his name?
"Diamonds are eternal" and "Greetings from Moscow". - who is the main character of these novels?
What was the name of the commander of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising?
In what century did New Netherlands officially change its name to Australia?
How many novellas was the Decameron?
Please complete Ignacy Krasicki's sentence: "True virtue...".
Are alcohols organic compounds?
In what century was the cave with the Lascaux cave paintings discovered?
What is the name of the basic unit of local government in Poland?
The creator of the painting 'Lady with an Ermine' is Leonardo da Vinci. And who painted the 'Lady with an Ermine'?
In which city was a museum of curiosities established in 2001?
Who in the poem came to the ladybird?
What is the name of a short-distance run?
In which century did the Battle of Poitiers take place?
In which century was the Viennese Ferris wheel built?
By law, could successive elected kings in Poland have been related?
Which raw material is the Persian Gulf known for?
What occurs in the saying along with the poppy and means nothing?
Who, according to the proverb, is king in the kingdom of the blind?
Who hasn't told a woman how to sow poppies?
Who is the patron saint of hunters?
In which city is the scene of the mob massacre in the film 'Battleship Potemkin' set?
For which Steven Spielberg film did Polish cinematographer Janusz Kaminski win an Oscar in 1994?
What used to be the name of a soldier on permanent duty attached to an officer? The word comes from the French.
In what century did Chadwick discover the neutron in the atomic nucleus?
What is the name of the traditional Russian meat dumplings?
In which country is Artemision, the temple in honour of Artemis, located today?
In old Russia, what was the name of the river workers towing barges on a rope?
Complete the saying: "neither dog nor..."?
Are urchins algal cells or cricket legs?
In which city in 1971 did Gierek ask the workers: "Then how? Will you help?"?
What did the title character of Emil Zola's novel die of?
How many days shook the world in the title of John Reed's book about the October Revolution?
On which continent was the first National Park established?
Is Switzerland a member of the UN?
What was the name of the King of Prussia, the initiator of the First Partition of Poland?
Was Anna Karenina, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel, married?
The virtuoso of which instrument is Nigel Kennedy?