What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet?
In which state is Mumbai located?
Which craftsmen appear in Witkacy's last novel?
What was the name of the physicist who invented the telephone in 1876?
The point where the axes intersect in the coordinate system is the zero point or the cut-off line?
What is the name of the hill in Paris on which the Sacré-Cœur basilica was built?
What is the name of Cuba's capital city?
Does philately include the collection of postcards and stamps?
Which gate is in the title of Roman Polanski's film?
What is the name of the smoking instrument and the top fang of the boar?
Where did the 1917 apparitions take place?
So-called dry ice is the solid form of which chemical compound?
What shape is the wimpel, the flag of merchant ships?
Which Australian city is home to a famous opera house?
Which saint, a fisherman from Bethsaida, is the patron saint of fishermen?
In which state is the Klondike, an area known for gold mining?
In which country is the Victoria Cross the highest honour?
What was the name of the chorus leader in ancient Greek theatre?
What is the name of the holiday celebrated on 31 October in Anglo-Saxon countries?
What material is Auguste Rodin's sculpture 'The Thinker' made of?
What is the name of the electrode connected to the negative pole of the current source?
From which animal's milk is whey called whey made?
In which country in the 1950s was the first credit card issued?
Who played the title role in Colonel Kwiatkowski?
Which country is the creator of Gadu-Gadu from?
What does the phrase 'manu propria' mean in Latin?
On which islands according to Jan Brzechwa was a donkey seen being carried by an ant?
Can a blood alcohol test be carried out without the consent of the person being tested?
Where did Judas come from?
What was the name of the director of the film 'Citizen Kane'?
Which animal is the symbol of a bull market in the stock market?
Who appoints the president of NIK?
What is the name of the actor who twice played the role of the barbarian Conan?
Which fish does an unserious, unbalanced person have in their head?
Was Herod I the Great a king of Judea?
What is the name of the Polish astronaut, General Hermaszewski?
Sublimate is the chloride of which metal?
Which work of the Trilogy was Hoffmann the first to be filmed?
What is the name of the letter of the Morse alphabet denoted as three dashes?
Do crocodiles live in China?
What is the name of the naval command in the UK?
The Caribbean Sea is part of which ocean?
On which continent did Mobutu Sese Seko rule?
Is quicklime a chemical compound or an element?
Does the aurora borealis occur at both poles?
What do we colloquially call the sports and entertainment hall in Katowice?
Whose privileges were restricted by the Great Charter of Liberties?
What is the science of bacteria, viruses and other micro-organisms called?
In which Polish uprising did the Jew Berek Joselewicz take part?
According to Jan Brzechwa, where does the reed grow where the beetle sounds?
What is the name of the entertainment district of Paris, located on the highest hill?
Which European capital is closest to the Polish border?
Who produced the film 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' in 1937?
What Latin words are uttered after the election of a pope?
Is calcium a metal?
Is the Sahara also located in Algerian territory?
To whom did the Durendal sword belong?
What is the name of the large tank for carrying fuel?
What is the name of the member of the Monty Python group, played in the films A Fish Called Wanda?
From which country did the dark, strong beer porter originate?
Which Tsar of Russia ordered Yermak's expedition to Siberia in 1582?
Which country was home to the so-called Bizonia - the combined occupation zones of the UK and US?
What was the name of the 'alien' spaceship?
In his self-portrait with Saskia, Rembrandt depicted himself with a woman sitting on his lap. Who was this woman to Rembrandt?
What is the name of the director of the film 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind'?
In which century did Rudolf Diesel develop the diesel engine?
What is a low-value card called in bridge?
How many metres is a hectometre?
Which cabaret is made up of Stanislaw Szelc, Jerzy Skoczylas and Leszek Niedzielski?
Which character in 'Quo vadis' is called Copperbeard?
What do we call a simple pyramid whose base is a regular figure?
In what century was the Queen Victoria and Prince Albert Museum established in London?
What was the name of the Swedish naturalist who created the classification of organisms?
What was the name of the telegraphist in 'The Four Armoured'?
What was the name of the sports club of which Ryszard Ochódzki was president?
Are there flamingos in South America?
What was the name of Esau and Jacob's father?
What is the name of the international organisation of writers founded in London in the 1920s?
Can churches and religious associations apply for EU grants?
In which country was Alfred Nobel born?
Which country does Bermuda belong to?
What is the meaning of the word Werwolf in Polish, which was the name of a German diversionary plan during World War II?
How many pairs of eyes does a flounder have?
What is the weight of the goods including packaging called?
What was the name of the band in which Michael Jackson performed with his brothers?
What is the name of a question that does not need to be answered because it is common knowledge?
In which Spanish city is the Alhambra Palace located?
What is the name of the mother of the mother and the cake?
What is the name of the famous Spanish tenor Carreras?
Swiekier is the old Polish name for the wife's father or the husband's father?
What is the name of the stamp album?
Who commanded the Polish army in 1673 at the Battle of Chocim?
On whose side did Sweden fight in both wars?
Which sport did Franz Beckenbauer play?
On which continent is the Takla Makan desert located?
Entente cordiale is an alliance concluded in 1904 between France and which country?
What is the name of the postulate that no two electrons in an atom have identical all four quantum numbers?
Which country did the knight Cid come from?
What is the name of the court writ providing the accused with security of arrival from abroad?
Who commanded the Polish troops at the Battle of Szczekociny?
Who created the writing system for the blind?
Who did the soldiers of the Legions call Grandfather?
What was Makuszynski's name?
From which continent do the lovebirds originate?
Which language is official in Brazil?
A state officer who prosecutes criminals and charges them in court is...?
In which city was the Pikador cabaret active?
What was the name of the former imperial residence in Beijing?
The forint is the currency of which country?
In which country are the ruins of the ancient city of Memphis located?
Who is the author of the poem about the Trumpet Elephant?
What was the name of the part of Poland directly incorporated into the Third Reich during World War II?
What do we call the ravioli for Christmas Eve borscht?
What chemical element and peninsula in the Baltic Sea share the same name?
What was the name of Vincent van Gogh's brother who supported him financially?
Who is the author of the words: "such shall be the Republic as its youth cherish"?
In which country does the highest peak in South America rise? - Aconcagua?
What is the name of the last letter in the Greek alphabet?
Gubałówka is more or less than 1,000 m above sea level?
In which year were the separate German states of East Germany and West Germany established?
What do we call a section of text starting with a new line?
Who attempted to lead Eurydice out of Hades?
What body part did Eeyore lose one day?
In which language does merci mean thank you?
What does the proverb say the canine wants?
The capital of which Italian region is Florence?
What does the Latin phrase 'ad exemplum' mean?
What is the name of a collective farm in Israel?
Where did Heraclitus come from?
Are vultures under protection in Poland?
Is Camembert cheese Greek cheese or French cheese?
The leader of which band is Adam Darski - Nergal?
What role did Stanislaw Mikulski play in 'More Than Life at Stake'?
What was Witos's name?
What was the name of Bellerofont's winged steed on which he fought Chimera?
Is the gibbon a mammal?
Is there a racecourse for horses in Wrocław?
In which city is the 91-metre high Battle of the Nations Monument located?
Which actor sang the song 'I'm such a cold bastard already'?
What is a pac worth, according to the proverb?
In the delta of which river lies the city of St Petersburg?
A representative of which movement in literature was Emil Zola?
We sing: "Poszła Karolinka do Gogolina". From which region does Karolina originate?
What does 'Opus Magnum' mean?
In which year was the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier built in Warsaw?
Which organ fits in the pericardial sac?
Do seals live only in seas and oceans or also in lakes?
What is the name of the musical instrument and the black grouse's tail?
How is the genre of literature called science fiction in Polish?
One of the mythical gorgons and the sea urchin share a common name?
Does the wildebeest antelope have horns?
Which pole of the Earth did Roald Amundsen conquer in December 1912?
In which part of Dziady did Mickiewicz include the "Letter to the friends of Muscovites"?
Maltese are a breed of which pets?
What character did Clark Gable play in Gone with the Wind?
What was the name of the imperial treasury under the principate?
Is the ruler of Oman a sultan, emir or king?
In what film did Richard Chamberlain play a priest torn between his vocation and love?
For whom does Mrs Rollison ask the Senator for mercy in part III of Dziady?
What is the title of the equivalent of foreign minister in the USA?
For which era is the slogan 'working at the bottom' characteristic?
What does the phrase 'in vitro' literally mean?
The proposal to become president of which country was given to Albert Einstein in 1952?
Which German Chancellor was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
Are the Niechcics the protagonists of "Above the Niemen" or "Nights and Days"?
What was the name of the pharaoh in "Pharaoh" by Bolesław Prus?
What is the name of a negative resolution regarding government action?
Which country did Celsius come from?
How many digits does a PIN usually count?
Lituanian Studies is the study of the literature and language of which country?
What is the name of the expert in handwriting analysis?
Which king established the Cracow Academy in 1364?
What was the Albatross girl's name?
At the bottom of which ocean do the Imperial Mountains rise?
Which Tsar is depicted in the statue of the Copper Rider in St Petersburg?
What is inevitable fate, fatum, called in Islam?
In the battle of which town with the Tartars did Henry the Pious die?
What was the name of the muse of the dance whose attribute was the lyre?
What rock is Gerlach made of?
What is the name of the aquatic spider that builds so-called bells underwater?
Who first sailed to the coast of North America - the Vikings, the Phoenicians or the Chinese?
How many twenty-minute parts are there in an ice hockey match?
Do woodpeckers fly away to warm countries from Poland for the winter?
For her role in which film did Vivien Lee win an Oscar in 1940?
What is the name of a speed skate? The word comes from the Russian skater?
What is the name of the author of the books 'Karlsson from the Roof', 'The Lionhearted Brothers'?
Which Roman philosopher, writer is the author of the words: "the good of the people should be the supreme law"?
Has there ever been an image of Henryk Sienkiewicz on circulating banknotes in Poland?
What is the annual plan of projected state expenditure and revenue called?
Which forest did Winnie the Pooh live in?
What country other than China has access to the Yellow Sea?
Please state Tolkien's first name?
What does the Crown of the Earth mean in mountaineering?
What is the name of the branch of zoology that deals with the study of arachnids?
How many days did Jesus fast in the desert?
Was Hedwig, wife of Henry I the Bearded, canonised?
Who commanded the Polish army at Grunwald?
Where did Koziołek Matołek go in Kornel Makuszyński's book?
What is the name of an old Polish silver coin worth a good joke?
Did Antonín Dvořák live in the 20th century?
Did the poet Lucjan Rydel also create plays?
In which Polish coastal town is the Fountain of Neptune located?
Which folk band did Irena Santor sing in at the beginning of her career?
What doesn't a resolute person blow?
The dismissal of which workers caused the strike at the Gdansk Shipyard?
What was Michelangelo's name?
In which month of 1968 did student protests take place in Poland?
In which city was Giuseppe Verdi's opera 'Aida' premiered?
In which city in the USA is the film 'Love it or Throw it' set?
Does Monaco host Formula One rallies?
What is the English name for a hot sausage roll?
What is the name of the square in front of the Royal Castle in Warsaw?
What do the guts play when we're hungry?
What was the colloquial name for the Soviet GAZ off-road vehicles?
What was the name of Dr Judym's beloved from 'Homeless People'?
In which year was the Treaty of Versailles signed?
What distinguished the brave lead soldier in Andersen's fairy tale?
Stanza was the jester of how many kings?
In what language did Count Jan Potocki, author of, among other things, The Saragossa Manuscript, write?
How many rulers of Poland came from the Angevin dynasty?
What is the name of a parallelogram whose lengths of all sides are equal?
Is estragon an herbaceous plant or an enzyme produced by the liver?
Near which lake is Juliusz Słowacki's Balladyna set?
Who was Seweryn to Cezary Baryka in Przedwiośń?
How many towers rise in the title of the second volume of the novel 'The Lord of the Rings'?
Who was the father of Shem, Cham and Japheth?
What is the Polish name for the element calcium?
Which conference of the heads of the three powers took place earlier - Yalta or Potsdam?
Please elaborate on the abbreviation IPN.
Are there marsupials in North America?
Which country is the papal guard from?
Do cereal grains contain starch?
Which country did the famous director Alfred Hitchcock come from?
What are the edible onion leaves called?
In which series do Malgorzata Kozuchowska and Tomasz Karolak play the main roles of Natalia and Ludwik Boski?
What does Stanisław Jachowicz warn against in his fairy tale 'Chory kotek'? What does Stanisław Jachowicz warn against in the fairy tale "Sick kitty"?
The Bab-al-Mandab Strait also known as the 'Gate of Tears' separates which two continents?
A monument to which Polish national hero is located at West Point?
Into which sea does the Nile flow?
Which of the great monotheistic religions is the youngest?
Strip pricing is overpricing or underpricing?
How many competitions does the Nordic Combined consist of?
The same name has a sticker with the name of the merchandise and the applicable behaviour. Which one?
What is the name of a territory administered by two states?
What was Baba Yaga's hut made of in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel?
Which god was hiding under the figure of a swan during his tryst with Leda?
Which body part was Achilles' weak point?
Do the pinch hitters play football or handball?
Which plant reaches a greater height: bamboo or sugar cane?
In which film does a man in a white suit pluck lilies from a pond?
Is an aquarist a person who keeps fish in an aquarium or a painter with watercolour paints?
How many years is a Polish passport issued to adults valid?
What is the name of the type of bicycle with a large front wheel and a small rear wheel?
What, in French, is the list of works played in a given theatre at a given time called?
In music, what is it called to perform a piece of music from sheet music without preparation?
What is the speed limit in a residential zone?
What was the name of the Spanish volunteer troops that took part on the side of Nazi Germany against the USSR in the Second World War?
On whose book was Sydney Pollack's film 'Farewell to Africa' based?
Who is the creator of the paintings: "Saskia in the red hat", "Saskia as Flora"?
What sport did Jacek Wszoła practise?
What is the name of the Russian alphabet in use today?
What was the name of India's first ever female Prime Minister?
Is the livre a former Italian coin?
Who sings the song 'Na zakręcie' to lyrics by Agnieszka Osiecka?
What is the name of the crustal vibration detection instrument?
Which Roman goddess was identified with the Greek Aphrodite?
On which day is the National Day of Remembrance of 'Soldiers of the Outlawed' celebrated?
In which city was the Racławice Panorama presented before World War II?
Who is the author of the paintings: "Storks", "Cranes"?
Which American actor's real name was Marion Morrison?
What is the name of a Japanese ritual suicide?
Who among the Big Three Tenors was Italian?
What field of art were Edward, John and Joseph Reszka involved in?
What is the diagram of brain function currents called?
On which bay of the Baltic is Helsinki located?
Where did Napoleon lose his last battle?
Which partition of Poland took place in 1772?
Which princely family founded the oldest Polish museum, still operating in Kraków today?
Bronowice is a district of which city?
Which voivodship is Katowice the capital of?
Who played the role of Mr Kleks in Krzysztof Gradowski's film?
In which country was jazz musician Jaroslaw Smietana born?
Can the Moon's surface temperature exceed 100 degrees Celsius?
In which year did Nixon step down as US President because of the Watergate affair?
In which national park does Kasprowy Wierch rise?
Which ruler in the early 13th century united the Mongolian and Turkic tribes?
Which tree is referred to as a smrek in highland dialect?
Which continent do the Pygmies come from?
Is Moscow on the Volga River?
Who played the role of Colonel Dowgird in 'Black Clouds'?
What was the name of the album for which the photograph was taken at Abbey Road?
What are the four front teeth in the maxilla and mandible called?
In which mountains did Mieczyslaw Karlowicz die?
What is the name of the capital of Cyprus?
What was the name of the last Aztec ruler overthrown by the Spaniards under Cortez?
What was Mrs Dulska's name?
Absolute, theocratic monarchy still exists in Europe - in which country?
Under what guise did Zeus seduce Leda?
What sport does Maja Włoszczowska practise?
In the novel The Godfather, what was the name of Don Corleone's youngest son?
Under what three-letter acronym was the secret military organisation of opponents of Algerian independence known?
In which city is Schönbrunn Palace located?
In what century did Tamerlan conquer the Golden Horde?
In which state is the city of Kolkata located?
Which Wyspianski piece tells the story of Lucjan Rydel's wedding?
Which planet in the Solar System has the longest period of rotation around its axis?
What do we call a minister without a ministry of his own?
The world trade union federation was established before or after the Second World War?
What was the name of the colonel of the German General Staff who carried out the assassination attempt on Hitler?
Alpha, beta, gamma - these are the initial letters of which alphabet?
In which city does the Gates of Dawn, also known as the Medininkai Gate, stand?
How do we play the viola - by leaning it against the shoulder or against the floor?
From which country does sangria - a drink made from red wine and fresh fruit - originate?
On which continent were the so-called Boer Wars fought?
Who must, when you command?
From which country did the so-called Red Brigades originate?
What is the name of a strong Portuguese wine from an island in the Atlantic Ocean?
What was the name of the commander of the defence of Westerplatte?
Who was the Speaker of the Four-Year Sejm at the time of the adoption of the May 3rd Constitution?
What do we call performance without words, acting expressed through facial expressions?
Is ASEAN an organisation of African or Asian countries?
What is the name of a celestial body that sends out cyclic pulses of radiation?
What nationality was Ferenc Molnar, author of 'The Boys from Bronze Square'?
From which continent do the Tuaregs originate?
How many children does Lech Walesa have?
What is the name of the cycle of three literary works?
How many official languages are there in South Africa?
Which country's capital is Nairobi?
What shape is the Greek letter delta?
Do juwenalia and juwenilia have the same meaning?
According to the proverb - to leave without having dealt with anything is to leave with...?
How many time zones is the globe divided into?
What is the name of a town in the Lubelskie Voivodship famous for breeding purebred Arabian horses?
Which Dutch painter painted the picture 'Eating potatoes'?
What is a morbid fear of heights called?
On what occasion were the words "It's a small step for man, but a big one for humanity" uttered?
How many rivers are in the fountain in Piazza Navona in Rome?
Which Tsar of Russia was Stefan Batory at war with?
Which seasons does April interweave?
On which river is the US capital Washington DC located?
What is the name of Szymanowski's villa in Zakopane?
What is the name of the samurai code of honour?
"It is sweet and honourable to die for the fatherland" - who is the author of these words?
In which country is Calderon's play 'Life is a Dream' set?
The Côte d'Azur is located on the territory of which country?
What is the name of a pocket watch chain?
Who was king of Poland at the Battle of Plowce in 1331?
Who was the serpent in paradise?
In which Polish mountains is the Murowaniec mountain chalet located?
Who captured Persepolis in 334?
What is the name of the direction in the theory of cognition according to which the main mode of cognition is intuition?
In which novel by Eliza Orzeszkowa is the love between Jan and Justyna the main plot?
What was the name of the author of the book 'The Name of the Rose'?
What was the name of the writer Herling-Grudzinski?
Which planet orbits at a greater distance from the Sun than the Earth - Mars or Venus?
In which country does the San River have its source?
Which Greek titan swallowed his descendants in fear of losing power?
In which city is the International Labour Organisation located?
What can be done to repay the favor?
In which century was Austria-Hungary founded?
What is the alliance of Australia, New Zealand and the USA called?
Bellona was the Roman goddess of what?
What is the name of the beautiful gypsy girl, the title character of Georges Bizet's opera?
In which city in Poland was the Radium Institute established on the initiative of Marie Skłodowska-Curie?
In which year was the so-called 'Silent Sejm' held?
What sport did Szozda practise?
What is the Italian name for the sailing and rowing competitions?
What did the magpie weigh in the children's poem?
Which two countries were linked by a bridge over the Sound in 2000?
Whose life is the book 'Moonwalk' describing? "Moonwalk"?
A variety of which fruit tree is the kronsel?
Who is the head of state in Ireland - the Prime Minister, the President or the Queen?
What does the phrase 'pro publico bono' mean in Latin?
In which century did Hans Christian Andersen create?
What were the names of the characters in the 1939 film The Vagabonds?
What is the name on the cards for giving up further bidding?
What were the Soviet labour camps called?
What was the name of Queen Elizabeth II's father?
In which city can we visit the Namiestnikowski Palace and Ujazdowski Castle?
What electrical charge does a positron have?
Vistula Spit, Lebsko Spit or Hel Spit - which one separates the Bay of Puck from the open sea?
What is the activity of combining quicklime with water called?
In which city is the main action of the novel 'The Doll' set?
What pseudonym did Stanislaw Mackiewicz use?
During the reign of which French ruler did the Empire style emerge?
In which light-related unit are the vast distances between stars measured?
What is the name of the carnival day on which doughnuts are eaten?
What is the name of the second deepest lake in the world located in Africa?
In which years of the 19th century did the Congress of Vienna meet?
Who is the author of the book 'King Matt I'?
Which lizard family are masters of camouflage?
What was the name of the light cavalry founded by Jozef Lisowski in the early 17th century?
Which Polish actress founded the Despite Everything Foundation?
Whose bitter enemy was Cato the Elder?
In which city was the peace ending the Polish-Swedish war concluded in 1660?
In what month was Gretel due to get married?
Klezmer is the colloquial term for musician or itinerant actor?
What is the woodruff from 'Pan Tadeusz': a linen, a plant or a musical instrument?
What is the name of the Polish rock band in which Artur Rojek was the vocalist?
What is four raised to the cube?
Which river is Przemyśl situated on?
'Our merry apocalypse' is a selection of essays by a Polish philosopher. Which one?
Whose wedding appears in the title of Mozart's opera?
Was the act of surrender after the Warsaw Uprising signed in Warsaw?
Where did the idea of the Olympic Games come from?
Who is the creator of Programme Three's Hit List?
Dysgraphia is a disorder of which skill?
Is there a world championship in cycling?
Which country was Remarque, author of the novel 'The Arc de Triomphe', from?
What is the oldest part of the Talmud called?
In songs, what is the section of text and melody that repeats after each stanza called?
Who was Klara from Revenge in love with?
Which saint helps you find lost items?
What is the name of Venezuela's capital city?
Is vaulting - acrobatic exercises on a galloping horse - a sport?
Did the May 3rd Constitution introduce hereditary succession to the throne?
In which province is Zamość located?
Whose wife was Bona Sforza?
On which ocean are the Azores located?
What is the name of the gondoliers' song?
How many weight categories exist in sumo?
In which month did the mass protest of the workers take place in Poznan in 1956?
What was the name of the Italian painter Modigliani?
Which cyclist is the general director of the Tour de Pologne?
Which British writer introduced the concept of Big Brother into literature?
How many colours does the flag of Ukraine consist of?
What is the name of the Tatra pass connecting Zawrat and Krzyżne?
What is the Muslim name for God the Creator?
Which country occupied British-owned Singapore in 1942?
What is the Greek name for an exaggerated belief in one's own worth, a mania for greatness?
The heroine of which novel by Makuszyński is Ewa Tyszowska?
What musical instrument does Bill Clinton play?
In which Italian city is there a statue of Marcus Aurelius?
What was the name of the bard of Apollo's oracle?
To whom did the Delphic oracle prophesy that he would kill his own father and marry his mother?
Is the person expressing himself colloquially using literary or colloquial language?
On whom does the saying go?
What is the name of the F1 race track in Lombardy?
Does Mount Kosciuszko in Australia measure more than 3,000m high?
Which element has the symbol W?
In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, what was the name of the official in charge of a castle or stronghold and adjoining district?
What are the names of the blue people from the children's evening show?
Anne Jagiellon completed after the death of Sigismund Augustus which investment: the bridge or the church?
Did Prince Joseph Poniatowski take part in the Battle of Waterloo?
Is paper a European or Asian invention?
What is the name of the short allegorical story and the mathematical conic curve?
Are setters a breed of hunting dog?
Etna, Stromboli, Tambora - which volcano does not rise in Italy?
Blackbirds are a breed of which animals?
Which well-known work of the Polish Enlightenment is subtitled "or the war of the Monks"?
According to which property are the elements in the Mendeleev system ranked?
In which year did Wanda Rutkiewicz become the first European woman to conquer Mount Everest?
How many stars appear on the flag of Cuba?
Apart from Mozart and Beethoven, who were the three Viennese classics?
Which part of Pinocchio's face changed appearance when he lied?
Which Israeli king captured Jerusalem in the 10th century BC? Jerusalem?
What is good parenting called in German?
On top of which mountain does Cordian deliver his monologue?
What was the name of the belt of fortifications built after the First World War in north-eastern France?
What language is spoken in Mexico?
What is the name of the oldest thermoplastic from which photographic film is made?
How many chambers does the Russian parliament consist of?
In which year did the Czech monk Gregory Mendel live?
Which vegetable is the basic ingredient in burrito stuffing?
What was the name of the Egyptologist who found Tutankhamun's tomb?
Is France's Libération a daily or a weekly?
What is the name of the beheading machine?
As water freezes, does it increase or decrease in volume?
What currency is used in India?
Which ruler in 44 BC was stabbed in the Roman Senate?
Which weapon should be buried ending the dispute?
According to the proverb, who is not so terrible as they paint him?
Which zodiac sign is the arachnid?
From which continent do the oldest known stone tools come?
In which century was the concept of war crimes introduced into the law and practice of war?
Does light in a vacuum propagate at the same speed as in air?
What did the odd duck turn into at the end of Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
What do we call, in Latin, the period after law school that prepares individuals for the work of a judge, a lawyer?
On which river is Paris located?
Who wrote the book 'Conversations with the Executioner'?
The heroines of which novel by Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz were Jola and Julcia?
What letter does Planck's so-called constant stand for in physics?
How many days is August?
The co-founder of which literary group was Julian Tuwim?
On which island did Napoleon Bonaparte die?
What do we colloquially call a person who arbitrarily occupies a flat?
In which of Wyspiański's dramas does the Cheetah appear?
In which year did the Kościuszko Uprising break out?
In which year did Kosciuszko issue the Polaniecki Uval?
What does the word insurrection mean?
What were the priestesses guarding the sacred fire called?
In which country is Bern located?
Who was the Greek equivalent of the Roman Diana?
What do we call, in Latin, an apprenticeship for people after law school that prepares them for the profession of judge, prosecutor?
What is the name of the Hutsul wind instrument in the form of a straight pipe?
Which Beatle recorded the song 'Set my mind on you'?
What is the title of the ballad that begins with the words: "Listen to the girl, she's not listening"?
What element has the symbol Ti?
What is the common name for the calcium carbide used to produce acetylene?
From which city does the Czerniakowska Band originate?
The mother saved Moses by putting him in a basket and letting him go on which river?
Towards which city do Muslims turn during prayer?
What did Madej, the hero of the folk tale, do for a living?
In which field of art does the prima ballerina perform?
In which language did Jerzy Kosinski write?
Who persecuted the innocent Susanna in the Old Testament?
What is the final period of the Stone Age called?
Who played the role of the working woman in the TV series 'Forty-year-olds'?
Please provide the names of the main couple around whom the plot of 'The Deluge' revolves?
What is the name of the Jewish tombstone?
From which continent do guppy fish originate?
What was the name of the instructor at the Warsaw Officer Cadet School, the leader of the conspiracy that led to the outbreak of the November Rising?
What is the name of a division of the nucleus in which there is no change in the number of chromosomes?
What unit in ancient Rome was divided into 12 ounces?
What is the name of a river valley with a narrow bottom and steep, rocky slopes?
Who died being stabbed in the heel by Paris with an arrow?
Who is entitled to the courtesy title of magnificence?
In which century did the art déco art direction take place?
Do chimpanzees and gorillas have a tail?
From which dynasty did Osman I, Suleiman the Magnificent come?
Is chad carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide?
What colours appear on the flag of Greece?
What do miners call a worker's shift in a mine?
Is a mikveh a type of headgear worn by Jews?
How many right angles can a triangle have?
Is a dielectric a material that conducts electricity well?
In which city is the Bollywood film studio located?
What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's book 'The Transformation' turn into?
Was Mieszko II the younger brother of Mieszko I?
In which country is the Order of the Elephant awarded?
To which country does Lviv belong?
What does the Latin 'vice versa' mean?
How many stars are there on the EU flag?
How many battles at Chocim did the Poles fight against the Turks?
Which university in the USA is the oldest?
Did Hannibal live before Christ or after Christ?
What role did Janusz Gajos play in the TV series 'Czterej pancerni i pies'?
Which Warsaw museum awards the Jan Rodowicz "Anoda" prize?
Are elderberries edible?
Please complete: "The grandfather spoke to the image, and the image..."?
What was the name of Louis XVI's wife, beheaded during the French Revolution?
What does ichnology study?
Abak in ancient Greece is a type of what?
What is the name of the philosophical direction in which experience is paramount?
Where was the first seat of the Grand Master of the Templar order located?
What is the name of the Polish footballer who scored 4 goals in one Champions League game?
What do we call the war that ended with the Peace of Torun in 1466?
Are harpsichord and clavichord the same thing?
What sport does Miroslav Klose play?
The figure of which Greek god is represented by a statue in London's Piccadilly Circus?
What were the names of the segregated areas for the black population in South Africa?
What is the name of the room under the church floor where the dead were buried?
Is Chile a predominantly mountainous or lowland country?
What is the title of Moniuszko's opera in which a poor highland girl falls in love with a nobleman?
Which Roman ruler introduced the Julian calendar?
Convergence is similarity or opposite?
What did the letter T lose according to the poem 'The Abecadło'?
Is a sonata an instrumental or vocal piece?
What religious congregation did Father John Bosco found in 1859?
Did Nicolaus Copernicus study medicine?
How many fingers does a bear's paw have?
What did Cain do?
Which animal was tamed and then given to John III Sobieski by Jan Chryzostom Pasek?
Could it be supervisory, pedagogical or company?
Combinatorics is the field of which science?
In Hinduism, what is the name of the wife of Vishnu, goddess of happiness, mother of Kama?
Which means of payment originated earlier: coins or banknotes?
What is the name of the largest animal in the seal family?
What is the name of the view according to which man is the centre of the universe?
What is the Latin name for the forced seclusion of political opponents?
What is the name of the branch of astronomy that deals with the study of the Moon's surface?
What colour are the almonds that symbolise dreams?
What is the most penalty points a driver can receive for overtaking on a pedestrian crossing?
Please list the first degree of variation of the adjective.
What was the three-letter abbreviation for Soviet fighter aircraft?
What is the name of the traditional dress of the Scottish Highlanders, the short plaid skirt?
What is the name of the Indian boat with a timber frame, covered with birch bark, the prototype of the canoe?
What is the name of the hero of English legends, the protector of the poor hiding in the Yorkshire woods?
Which country was Edmund Hillary, the first conqueror of Mount Everest, from?
What is the name of the game of picking individual sticks from a disorderly pile so as not to move the others?
Is the kestrel a bird of prey?
The Warsaw district of Praga is on the left or right bank of the Vistula?
Pablo Picasso or Vincent van Gogh - which one was born in Spain?
On which continent do the two mountain ranges named after Jan Czerski rise?
In which year did Croatia join the European Union?
Tricorn, cloche, fedora - these cover which part of the body?
What was the name of the English king nicknamed Lionheart?
Do you need eggs to bake sponge cakes?
What does the Latin saying 'amor vincit omnia' mean?
During which war is The Adventures of the Good Soldier Švejk set?
Which city hosts the festival where the Golden Shells are presented?
Small dumplings stuffed with chopped meat, served with broth, popular in Lithuania are...?
What is the Greek name for the sudden, uncontrollable fear of a larger number of people?
What is the name of the Kraków hill with the Dragon's Den and the Royal Castle?
How many oceans surround Antarctica?
Where is the Harbour Bridge located?
Is Proxima centauri a star or a planet?
Which country's capital is Copenhagen?
The Prime Ministers of which country were Neville Chamberlain and Harold Wilson?
On which day do we celebrate National Education Day?
Which town did Casanova come from?
Did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Prize in person?
What is the name of Adam Mickiewicz's youthful love?
Were women allowed to sit on the throne of Egypt?
Are daisies protected in Poland?
Please give the name of the actor who created the creation of Nikodem Dyzma, Stanislav Angel?
The content of which opera by Giuseppe Verdi is the fate of the Jews seeking to break out of Babylonian captivity?
Who was the author of the polychrome in Turek?
On which river is Lowicz located?
Does the kinetic energy of a body in motion depend on its mass?
What is the name of highly ionised air in which the number of free electrons is equal to the number of cations?
What is the name of the inn in Adam Mickiewicz's ballad 'Pani Twardowska'?
In which year did Hitler carry out the Anschluss of Austria?
Is Switzerland a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation?
What is the French name for an exhibition opening combined with a meeting with the author?
How many zeros does one million contain in decimal notation?
Who is the author of the fairy tale 'Hansel and Gretel'?
Which canal connects the Mediterranean and the Red Sea?
Do a brilliant and a diamond have the same chemical composition?
In which religion is the Tipitaka the holy book?
Figures from which game did Alice see on the other side of the mirror?
Where in the USA did Robert Kennedy die in the assassination attempt?
Which Polish king listened to Skarga's sermons?
What is the plant's ability to turn towards the light called?
What French word do we use to describe the rules of proper behaviour in company?
Are blintzes dumplings or pancakes?
Who wrote down for posterity the legend of Wanda who did not want a German?
One decagram how many grams is that?
What was the name of the absentminded gentleman looking for his glasses in Julian Tuwim's poem?
Which city was the capital of the General Government?
Did Stefan Żeromski win the Nobel Prize for Literature?
Anchovies is the French term for a dish of fish, snails or frogs' legs?
Who is the author of the painting 'The Last Judgement' located in Gdansk?
Did actor Leonardo DiCaprio play the role of Romeo?
What is the headgear of lawyers, clergymen and professors called?
Who played the title role in the film 'Zorba the Greek'?
Is Polish Humanitarian Action a governmental or non-governmental organisation?
On which number plate are the numbers on the yellow background: regular, antique or temporary?
What was the name of the author of a collection of fables in 12 volumes published in the 17th century?
Part of which country is the province of Quebec?
What was the name of the former unit of measurement of an adult's arm's reach?
Which America (North or South) has more population?
Which civil war did Ernest Hemingway take part in?
Where did the first screening of the Lumière brothers' film take place?
Do you use chopsticks when playing the marimba?
At which congress was the Free City of Krakow, or the Republic of Krakow, established?
Is the ludo shark a tiger or a shark?
Do axioms require proof?
What is the name of the actor who played Bond in the last three films?
How much does the men's discus weigh in athletics competition?
Which city hosted the 1924 Olympic Games, at which the Polish team made its official debut?
Whose face did the Stańczyk in Jan Matejko's painting have?
Jaggis, couscous, puff - types of what?
In the delta of which river was the Rosetta stone found in 1799?
What was the name of the wife of the USSR's only president?
What was the name of the state established by the Crusaders in Palestine and Syria?
In which city did Drakon rule in antiquity?
What is the name of the unit of mass used in gemstone trading?
How many daughters did Zeus have with the goddess of memory Mnemosyne?
In which European country was a woman the first to become president?
Who is the composer of the opera 'Madame Butterfly'?
In which America do the Cascade Mountains rise?
In which century did van Gogh live?
A mastectomy is the removal of which part of the body?
Silesia is the Latin name for which region of Poland?
Which muse held no attribute?
What is the name of Romania's capital city?
Which composer, cantor at St Thomas' Church in Leipzig, was the author of the 6 Brandenburg Concertos?
What is the name of a supporter of royal power?
At which ceremony in Rome were the words uttered: "where you Gaius, there I Gaius"?
In which province is Kartuzy located?
In which Polish city is Przekrój published?
In which city was a criminal group called the Camorra established?
In which country is the TV series 'Allo, allo' set?
In which country was Moses born?
What was the name of the Greek muse, the keeper of history?
Do the laufer and the chaser move in the same way?
What is the English name for a short circuit in boxing?
In which ocean are the Falkland Islands located?
Pacemaker, stent - are they endo- or exoprostheses?
What does the Latin word 'pater' mean?
The Nile is the longest river of which country?
From what metal were three denarii, coins worth three denarii, minted from the 14th century onwards?
In which country is the bridge over the River Kwai located?
What is the name of a money sign made of paper?
What are the branches of the trachea called?
In which country did Henryk Dabrowski form the Polish Legions?
Which African country borders Algeria and Egypt?
What do we call a criminal who kidnaps people for ransom?
Is there a vice-pope position in the Catholic Church?
What is the name of the Polish traveller who named Australia's highest peak Mount Kosciuszko?
From which country did Karen Blixen, author of the book Farewell to Africa, come from?
What does CMK stand for?
In what century did New Netherlands officially change its name to Australia?
What is the name of the basic unit of local government in Poland?
In which century did the Battle of Poitiers take place?
Who, according to the proverb, is king in the kingdom of the blind?
What used to be the name of a soldier on permanent duty attached to an officer? The word comes from the French.
Complete the saying: "neither dog nor..."?
On which continent was the first National Park established?